'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)sigblock.2	6.3 (Berkeley) 5/14/86
.\"
.TH SIGBLOCK 3B
.UC 5
.SH NAME
sigblock \- block signals from delivery to process (4.3BSD)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.PP
.B "int sigblock(int mask);"
.PP
.B "mask = sigmask(int signum);"
.PP
To use any of the
.SM BSD
signal routines
(\f2kill\fP(3B), \f2killpg\fP(3B), \f2sigblock\fP(3B), \f2signal\fP(3B),
\f2sigpause\fP(3B), \f2sigsetmask\fP(3B), \f2sigstack\fP(2B), \f2sigvec\fP(3B))
you must either
.IP 1) 3
#define
.SM \f3_BSD_SIGNALS\fP
or
.SM \f3_BSD_COMPAT\fP
before including <\f2signal.h\fP>,
or
.IP 2)  3
specify one of them in the compile
command or makefile:
.Ex
cc -D_BSD_SIGNALS -o prog prog.c
.Ee
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sigblock
causes the signals specified in
.I mask
to be added to the set of signals currently
being blocked from delivery.
Signals are blocked if the
corresponding bit in 
.I mask
is a 1 (numbering the bits from 1 to 32); the macro
.I sigmask
is provided to construct the mask for a given
.IR signum .
.PP
It is not possible to block 
.SM
.BR SIGKILL ,
.SM
.BR SIGSTOP ,
or 
.SM
.BR SIGCONT ;
this restriction is
imposed silently by the system.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The previous set of masked signals is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kill(3B), sigvec(3B), sigsetmask(3B), signal(5).
.ne 5
.SH "WARNING (IRIX)"
The 4.3\s-1BSD\s+1 and System V signal facilities have different semantics.
Using both facilities in the same program is \f3strongly discouraged\fP
and will result in unpredictable behavior.
