'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)sigpause.2	6.2 (Berkeley) 5/15/86
.\"
.TH SIGPAUSE 3B
.UC 4
.SH NAME
sigpause \- atomically release blocked signals and wait for interrupt (4.3BSD)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.PP
.B int sigpause(int mask);
.PP
.B "mask = sigmask(int signum);"
.PP
To use any of the
.SM BSD
signal routines
(\f2kill\fP(3B), \f2killpg\fP(3B), \f2sigblock\fP(3B), \f2signal\fP(3B),
\f2sigpause\fP(3B), \f2sigsetmask\fP(3B), \f2sigstack\fP(2B), \f2sigvec\fP(3B))
you must either
.IP 1) 3
#define
.SM \f3_BSD_SIGNALS\fP
or
.SM \f3_BSD_COMPAT\fP
before including <\f2signal.h\fP>,
or
.IP 2)  3
specify one of them in the compile
command or makefile:
.Ex
cc -D_BSD_SIGNALS -o prog prog.c
.Ee
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sigpause
assigns
.I mask
to the set of masked signals
and then waits for a signal to arrive;
upon return the original set of masked signals is restored
after executing the handler(s) (if any) installed for the awakening signal(s).
.I mask
is usually 0 to indicate that no
signals are now to be blocked.
The macro
.I sigmask
is provided to construct the mask for a given signal number.
.I Sigpause
always terminates by being interrupted, returning \-1 with
the global integer
.I errno
set to
.SM
.BR EINTR .
.PP
In normal usage, a signal is blocked using
.IR sigblock (3B),
to begin a critical section, variables modified on the occurrence
of the signal are examined to determine that there is no work
to be done, and the process pauses awaiting work by using
.I sigpause
with the mask returned by
.IR sigblock .
.SH SEE ALSO
sigblock(3B), sigvec(3B), signal(5).
.ne 5
.SH "CAVEATS (IRIX)"
.PP
Because 4.3BSD and System V both have \f2sigpause\fP system calls, programs
using 4.3BSD's version are actually executing \f2BSDsigpause\fP.  This is
transparent to the programmer except when attempting to set breakpoints in
.BR dbx ;
the breakpoint must be set at \f2BSDsigpause\fP.
.SH "WARNING (IRIX)"
The 4.3\s-1BSD\s+1 and System V signal facilities have different semantics.
Using both facilities in the same program is \f3strongly discouraged\fP
and will result in unpredictable behavior.
