'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)sigsetmask.2	6.3 (Berkeley) 5/14/86
.\"
.TH SIGSETMASK 3B
.UC 5
.SH NAME
sigsetmask \- set current signal mask (4.3BSD)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.PP
.B "int sigsetmask(int mask);"
.PP
.B "mask = sigmask(int signum);"
.PP
To use any of the
.SM BSD
signal routines
(\f2kill\fP(3B), \f2killpg\fP(3B), \f2sigblock\fP(3B), \f2signal\fP(3B),
\f2sigpause\fP(3B), \f2sigsetmask\fP(3B), \f2sigstack\fP(2B), \f2sigvec\fP(3B))
you must either
.IP 1) 3
#define
.SM \f3_BSD_SIGNALS\fP
or
.SM \f3_BSD_COMPAT\fP
before including <\f2signal.h\fP>,
or
.IP 2)  3
specify one of them in the compile
command or makefile:
.Ex
cc -D_BSD_SIGNALS -o prog prog.c
.Ee
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sigsetmask
sets the current signal mask (those signals
that are blocked from delivery).
Signals are blocked if the
corresponding bit in
.I mask
is a 1 (numbering the bits from 1 to 32);
the macro
.I sigmask
is provided to construct the mask for a given
.IR signum .
.PP
The system
quietly disallows
.SM
.BR SIGKILL ,
.SM
.BR SIGSTOP ,
or
.SM
.BR SIGCONT
to be blocked.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The previous set of masked signals is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kill(3B), sigvec(3B), sigblock(3B), sigpause(3B), signal(5).
.ne 5
.SH "WARNING (IRIX)"
The 4.3\s-1BSD\s+1 and System V signal facilities have different semantics.
Using both facilities in the same program is \f3strongly discouraged\fP
and will result in unpredictable behavior.
