'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.acct @(#)acct @(#)acct	41.4
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} acct 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} acct 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} acct 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} acct "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4acct\f1 \- enable or disable process accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int acct(const char \(**path);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4acct\fP
enables or disables the system process accounting routine.
If the routine is enabled, an accounting record will be written in an
accounting file for each process that terminates.
The termination of a process can be caused by one of two things: an
\f4exit\fP
call or a signal
[see
\f4exit\fP(2) and \f4signal\fP(2)].
The calling process must be super-user to enable or disable accounting.
.PP
.I path\^
points to a pathname naming the accounting file.
The accounting file format is given in
\f4acct\fP(4).
.PP
The accounting routine is enabled if
.I path\^
is non-zero and no errors occur during the system call.
It is disabled if
.I path\^
is \f4(char *)NULL\fP and no errors occur during the system call.
.PP
\f4acct\fP
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
\f4EACCES\fP
The file named by
.I path\^
is not an ordinary file.
.TP 20
\f4EACCES\fP
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP 20
\f4EACCES\fP
Write permission on the name file is denied.
.TP
\f4EBUSY\fP
An attempt is being made to enable accounting using the same file
that is currently being used.
.TP
\f4EFAULT\fP
.I path\^
points to an illegal address.
.TP
\f4ELOOP\fP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \f2path\f1.
.TP
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
The length of the \f2path\f1 argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1 is in effect.
.TP
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
\f4ENOENT\fP
One or more components of the accounting file pathname do not exist.
.TP
\f4EPERM\fP
The calling process is not super-user when trying to enable or 
disable accounting.
.TP
\f4EROFS\fP
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4exit\fP(2), \f4signal\fP(2),
\f4acct\fP(4)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned. Otherwise, a
value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)acct.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
