'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)adjtime 41.3 91/05/26 SMI; from UCB 4.3
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} adjtime 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} adjtime 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} adjtime 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} adjtime "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4adjtime\f1 \- correct the time to allow synchronization of the system clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <sys/time.h>\f1
.LP
.ft 4
\f4int adjtime(struct timeval \(**delta, struct timeval \(**olddelta);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4adjtime\f1
adjusts the system's notion of the current time,
as returned by
\f4gettimeofday\f1(3C),
advancing or retarding it by the amount of time specified in the
\f4struct timeval\f1
pointed to by
.IR delta .
.LP
The adjustment is effected by speeding up (if that amount of time
is positive) or slowing down (if that amount of time is negative)
the system's clock by some small percentage, generally a fraction of
one percent.
Thus, the time is always
a monotonically increasing function.
A time correction from an earlier call to
\f4adjtime\f1
may not be finished when
\f4adjtime\f1
is called again.
If
.I delta
is \f40\f1, then
.I olddelta
returns the status of the effects of the previous \f4adjtime\f1
call and there is no effect on the time correction as a result of this call.
If
.I olddelta
is not a
.SM NULL
pointer, then the structure it points to will contain, upon return, the
number of seconds and/or microseconds still to be corrected
from the earlier call.
If
.I olddelta
is a
.SM NULL
pointer, the corresponding information will not be returned.
.LP
This call may be used in time servers that synchronize the clocks
of computers in a local area network.
Such time servers would slow down the clocks of some machines
and speed up the clocks of others to bring them to the average network time.
.LP
Only a process with the super-user privilege
can adjust the time of day.
.LP
The adjustment value will be silently rounded to the resolution
of the system clock.
.SH RETURN
A 0 return value indicates that the call succeeded.
A \-1 return value indicates an error occurred, and in this
case an error code is stored into the global variable
\f4errno\f1.
.SH ERRORS
The following error codes may be set in
\f4errno\f1:
.TP 20
\f4EFAULT\f1
.I delta
or
.I olddelta
points outside the process's allocated address space, or
.I olddelta
points to a region of the process' allocated address space that is not
writable.
.TP
\f4EPERM\f1
The calling process does not have the super-user privilege
to change the time of day.
.TP
\f4EINVAL\f1
The value of
.I delta
is not an acceptable value, it is either too large or too small.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4date\f1(1),
\f4gettimeofday\f1(3C)
