'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)bind.2	6.6 (Berkeley) 5/22/86
.\"
.if n .pH man2.bind @(#)bind	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH BIND 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
bind \- bind a name to a socket 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.B "int bind (int s, const struct sockaddr \(**name, int namelen);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bind
assigns a name to an unnamed socket.
When a socket is created 
with
.IR socket (2)
it exists in a name space (address family)
but has no name assigned.
.I Bind
requests that
.IR name 
be assigned to the socket.
.PP
The rules used in name binding vary between communication domains.
Consult the protocol manual entries in section 7 for detailed information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
If the bind is successful, a 0 value is returned.
A return value of \-1 indicates an error, which is
further specified in the global \f2errno\fP.
.SH ERRORS
The \f2bind\fP call will fail if:
.TP 20
[EBADF]
\f2S\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 20
[ENOTSOCK]
\f2S\fP is not a socket.
.TP 20
[EADDRNOTAVAIL]
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.TP 20
[EADDRINUSE]
The specified address is already in use.
.TP 20
[EINVAL]
The socket is already bound to an address.
.TP 20
[EACCES]
The requested address is protected, and the current user
has inadequate permission to access it.
.TP 20
[EFAULT]
The \f2name\fP parameter is not in a valid part of the user
address space.
.P
See also the protocol-specific manual pages for other error values.
.SH SEE ALSO
connect(2), listen(2), socket(2), tcp(7P), udp(7P), unix(7F)
.SH NOTE
ABI-compliant versions of the above call can be obtained from
.IR libsocket.so .
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
