'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.chdir @(#)chdir	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} chdir 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} chdir 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} chdir 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} chdir "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4chdir\f1, \f4fchdir\f1 \- change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int chdir(const char \(**path);\f1
.PP
\f4int fchdir(int fildes);\f1
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4chdir\fP
and
\f4fchdir\fP
cause a directory pointed to by
.I path\^
or
.I fildes\^
to become the current working directory,
the starting point for path searches for
path names
not beginning with
\f4/\f1.
.I path\^
points to the
path name
of a directory.
The
.I fildes\^
argument to 
\f4fchdir\fP
is an open file descriptor of a directory.
.PP
In order for a directory to become the current directory, a process
must have execute (search) access to the directory.
.PP
\f4chdir\fP
will fail and the current working directory will be unchanged if
one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
\f4EACCES\fP
Search permission is denied for any component of the
path name.
.TP 20
\f4EFAULT\fP
.I path\^
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.TP 20
\f4EINTR\fP
A signal was caught during the execution of the \f4chdir\fP system call.
.TP 20
\f4EIO\fP
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP 20
\f4ELOOP\fP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP 20
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
The length of the \f2path\f1 argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1 is in effect.
.TP 20
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
A component of the path name is not a directory.
.TP 20
\f4ENOENT\fP
Either a component of the path prefix or the directory named by
.I path
does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP 20
\f4ENOLINK\fP
\f2path\f1 points to a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP 20
\f4ETIMEDOUT\fP
The named file
is located on a remote file system which is not available [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.TP 20
\f4EMULTIHOP\fP
Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to multiple
remote machines and file system type does not allow it.
.PP
\f4fchdir\fP
will fail and the current working directory will be unchanged if
one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
\f4EACCES\fP
Search permission is denied for \f2fildes\f1.
.TP 20
\f4EBADF\fP
.I fildes
is not an open file descriptor.
.TP 20
\f4EINTR\fP
A signal was caught during the execution of the \f4fchdir\fP system call.
.TP 20
\f4EIO\fP
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP 20
\f4ENOLINK\fP
\f2fildes\f1 refers to a directory on a remote file system
and the link to that machine is no longer active.
.TP 20
\f4ETIMEDOUT\fP
\f2fildes\f1 refers to a directory on a remote file system
which is not available [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.TP 20
\f4ENOTDIR\fP 
The open file descriptor 
.I fildes\^
does not refer to a directory.
.TP 20
\f4ENOENT\fP 
The directory pointed to by
.I fildes\^
does not exist.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4chroot\fP(2).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of zero is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
