'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.chroot @(#)chroot	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} chroot 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} chroot 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} chroot 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} chroot "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4chroot\f1 \- change root directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int chroot(const char \(**path);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I path\^
points to a
path name
naming a directory.
\f4chroot\fP
causes the named directory to become the root directory,
the starting point for path searches for
path names
beginning with
\f4/\f1.
The user's working directory is unaffected by the \f4chroot\fP system call.
.PP
The calling process must have the super-user privilege
to change the root directory.
.PP
The
\f4\&..\f1
entry in the root directory is interpreted to mean the root directory
itself.
Thus,
\f4\&..\f1
cannot be used to access files outside the subtree rooted at the root
directory.
.PP
\f4chroot\fP
will fail and the root directory will remain unchanged if
one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EACCES\fP
Search permission is denied on a component of the pathname.
.TP 15
\f4ELOOP\fP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \f2path\f1.
.TP
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
The length of the \f2path\f1 argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1 is in effect.
.TP
\f4EFAULT\fP
.I path\^
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.TP
\f4EINTR\fP
A signal was caught during the \f4chroot\fP system call.
.TP
\f4EMULTIHOP\fP
Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to multiple
remote machines and file system type does not allow it.
.TP
\f4ENOLINK\fP
\f2path\f1 points to a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP 15
\f4ETIMEDOUT\fP
The named directory
is located on a remote file system which is not available [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.TP
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
Any component of the path name is not a directory.
.TP
\f4ENOENT\fP
The named directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
\f4EPERM\fP
The calling process does not have the super-user privilege
for changing the root directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4chdir\fP(2).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)chroot.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
