'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH 2/gen/close @(#)close	43.5 of 8/4/92
.\" Copyright 1992, 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990, 1989 AT&T
.TH close 2
.SH NAME
\f4close\f1 \- close a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.br
\f4int close(int \f2fildes\fP);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fildes\^
is a
file descriptor
obtained from a
\f4creat\fP,
\f4open\fP,
\f4dup\fP,
\f4fcntl\fP,
\f4pipe\fP,
or
\f4iocntl\fP
system call.
\f4close\fP
closes the file descriptor indicated by \f2fildes\fP.
All outstanding record locks owned by the process (on the file indicated by
\f2fildes\fP) are removed.
.PP
If the link count of the file is zero, when all file descriptors
associated with the file have been closed, the space occupied by the
file is freed and the file is no longer accessible.
.PP
If a \s-1STREAMS\s0-based
[see \f4intro\fP(2)] \f2fildes\fP is closed,
and the calling process had previously registered to receive
a \f4SIGPOLL\fP signal [see \f4signal\fP(5)] for
events associated with that stream [see \f4I_SETSIG\fP in \f4streamio\fP(7)],
the calling process will be unregistered for events associated with the stream.
The last \f4close\fP for a stream causes the stream associated with
\f2fildes\f1 to be dismantled.
If
\f4O_NDELAY\fP and \f4O_NONBLOCK\fP
are clear and there have been no signals posted for the stream,
and if there are data on the module's write queue,
\f4close\fP
waits up to 15 seconds (for each module and driver) for any output to drain
before dismantling the stream.
The time delay can be changed via an \f4I_SETCLTIME\f1 \f4ioctl\f1 request
[see \f4streamio\f1(7)].
If \f4O_NDELAY\fP or \f4O_NONBLOCK\fP is set,
or if there are any pending signals,
\f4close\fP does not wait for output to drain, and dismantles
the stream immediately.
.PP
If \f2fildes\fP is associated with one end of a pipe, the last \f4close\fP causes
a hangup to occur on the other end of the pipe.
In addition, if the other end of the pipe has been named [see \f4fattach\f1(3C)],
the last \f4close\fP forces the named end to be detached [see \f4fdetach\f1(3C)].
If the named end has no open processes associated with it and becomes detached,
the stream associated with that end is also dismantled.
.PP
When closing all (or most) of a process's open file descriptors, it is
best not to close all descriptors up to the system maximum, as this value
can be large.  See \f4getdtablehi\fP(3C).
.PP
The named file is closed unless one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EBADF\fP
.I fildes\^
is not a valid open
file descriptor.
.TP 15
\f4EINTR\fP
A signal was caught during the \f4close\fP system call.
.TP 15
\f4ETIMEDOUT\fP
The object of the close is located on a remote system which is not available [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.PP
If the named file is a remote object accessed via NFS, \f4close\fP may return
errors from a buffered \f4write\fP call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4creat\fP(2),
\f4dup\fP(2),
\f4exec\fP(2),
\f4fattach\f1(3C),
\f4fcntl\fP(2),
\f4fdetach\fP(3C),
\f4getdtablehi\fP(3C),
\f4intro\fP(2),
\f4open\fP(2),
\f4pipe\fP(2),
\f4signal\fP(2),
\f4signal\fP(5),
\f4streamio\fP(7)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
