'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)connect.2	6.6 (Berkeley) 5/22/86
.\"
.if n .pH man2.connect @(#)connect	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH CONNECT 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
connect \- initiate a connection on a socket 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.B "int connect (int s, const struct sockaddr \(**name, int namelen);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The parameter
.I s
is a socket.
If it is of type SOCK_DGRAM,
then this call specifies the peer with which the socket is to be associated;
this address is that to which datagrams are to be sent,
and the only address from which datagrams are to be received.
If the socket is of type SOCK_STREAM,
then this call attempts to make a connection to
another socket.
The other socket is specified by
.I name,
which is an address in the communications space of the socket.
Each communications space interprets the
.I name
parameter in its own way.
Generally, stream sockets may successfully
.I connect
only once; datagram sockets may use
.I connect
multiple times to change their association.
Datagram sockets may dissolve the association
by connecting to an invalid address, such as a zero-filled address.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
If the connection or binding succeeds, then 0 is returned.
Otherwise a \-1 is returned, and a more specific error
code is stored in \f2errno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
The call fails if:
.TP 20
[EBADF]
.I S
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 20
[ENOTSOCK]
.I S
is a descriptor for a file, not a socket.
.TP 20
[EADDRNOTAVAIL]
The specified address is not available on this machine.
.TP 20
[EAFNOSUPPORT]
Addresses in the specified address family cannot be used with this socket.
.TP 20
[EISCONN]
The socket is already connected.
.TP 20
[ETIMEDOUT]
Connection establishment timed out without establishing a connection.
.TP 20
[ECONNREFUSED]
The attempt to connect was forcefully rejected.
.TP 20
[ENETUNREACH]
The network isn't reachable from this host.
.TP 20
[EADDRINUSE]
The address is already in use.
.TP 20
[EFAULT]
The \f2name\fP parameter specifies an area outside
the process address space.
.TP 20
[EINPROGRESS]
The socket is non-blocking 
and the connection cannot
be completed immediately.
It is possible to
.IR select (2)
for completion by selecting the socket for writing.
.TP 20
[EALREADY]
The socket is non-blocking
and a previous connection attempt
has not yet been completed.
.P
See also the protocol-specific manual pages for other error values.
.SH SEE ALSO
accept(2), select(2), socket(2), tcp(7P), udp(7P), unix(7F)
.SH NOTE
ABI-compliant versions of the above call can be obtained from
.IR libsocket.so .
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
