'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.dev_to_drivername @(#)dev_to_drivername	1.1 of 4/10/97
.TH DEV_TO_DRIVERNAME 2
.SH NAME
dev_to_drivername \- determine the driver name  for the device
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B #include <invent.h>
.sp
.B "int dev_to_drivername (dev_t dev, char \(**buf, int \(**length);"
.PP
.Op
.SH OVERVIEW
.I dev_to_drivername
is useful to determine the name of the driver handling
the device.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I dev_to_drivername
function provides a way to retrieve the name of the device
driver handling the device.
.P
.I Dev\^
identifies the device,
.I buf\^
is the placeholder for the driver name and 
.I length
is an input/output argument that on the call to 
.I dev_to_drivername
should contain the maximum size of the name the process is
willing to accept.
On return, the
.I length
will have been modified to show the actual size of the
device driver name returned.
.PP
.I dev_to_drivername
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP
.SM
\%[E2BIG]
The driver name  is too large to fit into the buffer.
The integer that the
.I valuelength
argument points to has been modified to show the actual numnber
of bytes that would be required to store the value of that attribute.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENODEV]
The device does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The effective user
.SM ID
does not match the owner of the file
and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Buf,
or
.I length
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
attr(1), hwgraph(4)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, the name is returned.
Otherwise, a value of NULL is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)dev_to_drivername.2	1.0 of 6.12.95
.Ee
