'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.fdes_to_drivername @(#)fdes_to_drivername	1.1 of 4/10/97
.TH FDES_TO_DRIVERNAME 2
.SH NAME
fdes_to_drivername \- determine the driver name for the device
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B #include <invent.h>
.sp
.B "char * fdes_to_drivername (int fd, char \(**buf, int \(**length);"
.PP
.Op
.SH OVERVIEW
.I fdes_to_drivername
is useful to determine the name of the driver handling
the device corresponding to the special file descriptor.
Note that this file descriptor can correspond to any of the different 
alias names for the device.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I fdes_to_drivername
function provides a way to retrieve the name of the driver handling
the device corresponding to the special file descriptor.
.P
.I fd\^
identifies the device,
.I buf\^
is the placeholder for the driver name and 
.I length
is an input/output argument that on the call to 
.I fdes_to_drivername
should contain the maximum size of the name the process is
willing to accept.
On return, the
.I length
will have been modified to show the actual size of the
driver name returned.
.PP
.I fdes_to_drivername
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP
.SM
\%[E2BIG]
The driver name  is too large to fit into the buffer.
The integer that the
.I valuelength
argument points to has been modified to show the actual numnber
of bytes that would be required to store the value of that attribute.
.TP
.SM
\%[EBADF]
.I Fd\^
does not refer to a valid descriptor.
.TP
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The effective user
.SM ID
does not match the owner of the file
and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Buf,
or
.I length
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
attr(1), hwgraph(4)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, the name is returned.
Otherwise, a value of NULL is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)fdes_to_drivername.2	1.0 of 6.12.95
.Ee
