'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.filename_to_drivername @(#)filename_to_drivername	1.1 of 4/10/97
.TH FILENAME_TO_DRIVERNAME 2
.SH NAME
filename_to_drivername \- determine the device name for the device file
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B #include <invent.h>
.sp
.B "int filename_to_drivername (char \(**filename, char \(**buf, int \(**length);"
.PP
.Op
.SH OVERVIEW
.I filename_to_drivername
is useful to determine the name of the driver handling
the device with the given special filename. Note that there can multiple
alias names for a device vertex in the hardware graph.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I filename_to_drivername
function provides a way to retrieve the name of the driver handling
the device with the given special filename.
.P
.I filename\^
identifies the device,
.I buf\^
is the placeholder for the device name and 
.I length
is an input/output argument that on the call to 
.I filename_to_drivername
should contain the maximum size of the name the process is
willing to accept.
On return, the
.I length
will have been modified to show the actual size of the
driver name returned.
.PP
.I filename_to_drivername
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP
.SM
\%[E2BIG]
The driver name  is too large to fit into the buffer.
The integer that the
.I valuelength
argument points to has been modified to show the actual numnber
of bytes that would be required to store the value of that attribute.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
file path name prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Search permission is denied on a
component of the
file path name prefix.
.TP
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The effective user
.SM ID
does not match the owner of the file
and the effective user
.SM ID
is not super-user.
.TP
.SM
\%[ELOOP]
The file path name lookup involved too many symbolic links.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of
.I filename
exceeds
.SM
.RI { MAXPATHLEN },
or a filename component is longer than
.SM
.RI { MAXNAMELEN }.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Buf,
or
.I length
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
attr(1), hwgraph(4)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, the name is returned.
Otherwise, a value of NULL is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)filename_to_drivername.2	1.0 of 6.12.95
.Ee
