'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.fpathconf @(#)fpathconf	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} fpathconf 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} fpathconf 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fpathconf 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} fpathconf "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4fpathconf\f1, \f4pathconf\f1 \- get configurable pathname variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4long fpathconf (int fildes, int name);\f1
.PP
\f4long pathconf (const char *path, int name);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions \f4fpathconf\fP and \f4pathconf\fP
return the current
value of a configurable limit or option associated with a file
or directory.
The \f2path\fP argument points to the pathname of a file or directory;
\f2fildes\fP is an open file descriptor; and \f2name\fP is the 
symbolic constant (defined in \f4<sys/unistd.h>\fP) representing the 
configurable system limit or option to be returned.
.PP
The values returned by \f4pathconf\fP and \f4fpathconf\fP
depend on the type of file specified by \f2path\fP
or \f2fildes\fP.
The following table contains the 
symbolic constants supported by \f4pathconf\fP and \f4fpathconf\fP.
The return value is based on the type of file 
specified by \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP.
.PP
.vs +2
.TS
center allbox tab(:);
c c 
lf4 | c .
Value of \f2name\fP : See Note
_
_PC_LINK_MAX : 1
_PC_MAX_CANNON : 2
_PC_MAX_INPUT : 2
_PC_NAME_MAX : 3,4
_PC_PATH_MAX : 4,5
_PC_PIPE_BUF : 6
_PC_CHOWN_RESTRICTED : 7
_PC_NO_TRUNC : 3,4
_PC_VDISABLE : 2
_PC_ASYNC_IO : 8
_PC_ABI_ASYNC_IO : 8
_PC_ABI_AIO_XFER_MAX : 8
_PC_SYNC_IO : 8
_PC_PRIO_IO : 8
.TE
.vs -2
.PP
Notes:
.sp .5
.de No
.IP "\\$1"
..
.No "1"
If \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP refers to a directory, the value returned applies
to the directory itself.
.No "2"
The behavior is undefined if \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP does not refer to a
terminal file.
.No "3"
If \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP refers to a directory, the value returned 
applies to the filenames within the directory.
.No "4"
The behavior is undefined if \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP does not refer to a
directory.
.No "5"
If \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP refers to a directory, the value returned is
the maximum length of a relative pathname when the specified directory
is the working directory.
.No "6"
If \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP refers to a pipe or FIFO, the value returned
applies to the FIFO itself.
If \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP refers to a
directory, the value returned applies to any FIFOs that exist or
can be created within the directory.
If \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP
refer to any other type of file, the behavior is undefined.
.No "7"
If \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP refers to a directory, the value returned
applies to any files, other than directories,
that exist or can be created within the directory.
.No "8"
The behavior is undefined if \f2path\fP or \f2fildes\fP
refers to a directory.
.PP
The value of the configurable system limit or option
specified by \f2name\fP does not change during
the lifetime of the calling process.
.PP
\f4fpathconf\fP fails if the following is true:
.TP .75i
\f4EACCES\fP
Read permission is denied on the named file.
.TP .75i
\f4EBADF\fP
\f2fildes\fP is not a valid file descriptor.
.PP
\f4pathconf\fP fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP .75i
\f4EACCES\fP
search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP .75i
\f4ELOOP\fP
too many symbolic links are encountered while translating
\f2path\fP.
.TP .75i
\f4EMULTIHOP\fP
components of \f2path\fP require hopping to multiple remote machines
and file system type does not allow it.
.TP .75i
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
the length of a pathname exceeds \f4{PATH_MAX}\fP, or pathname
component is longer than \f4{NAME_MAX}\fP while
\f4(_POSIX_NO_TRUNC)\fP is in effect.
.TP .75i
\f4ENOENT\fP
\f2path\fP is needed for the command specified and the named file
does not exist or if the \f2path\fP argument points to an empty string.
.TP .75i
\f4ENOLINK\fP
\f2path\fP points to a remote machine and the link to that machine is no
longer active.
.TP .75i
\f4ETIMEDOUT\fP
A component of \f2path\fP resides on a remote system
which is not available [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.TP .75i
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
a component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.PP
Both \f4fpathconf\fP and \f4pathconf\fP fail if the following is true:
.TP .75i
\f4EINVAL\fP
if \f2name\fP is an invalid value.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4sysconf\fP(3c),
\f4ulimit\fP(2),
\f4limits\fP(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \f4fpathconf\fP or \f4pathconf\fP are invoked with an
invalid symbolic constant or
the symbolic constant corresponds to a configurable system limit
or option not supported on the system,
a value of -1 is returned
to the invoking process. 
If the function fails because the configurable system limit or option
corresponding to \f2name\fP is
not supported on the system 
the value of \f4errno\fP is not changed.
.\"	@(#)fpathconf.3c	1 of 3/1/89
.Ee
