'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)gethostname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/22/86
.\"
.TH gethostname 2
.SH NAME
gethostname, sethostname \- get/set name of current host
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <unistd.h>\f1
\f3int gethostname (char \(**name, size_t namelen);\f1
\f3int sethostname (char \(**name, int namelen);\f1
.fi
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3integer function gethostname (name, namelen)\f1
\f3character *1 name (namelen)\f1
\f3integer namelen\f1
.fi
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gethostname
returns the standard hostname for the current processor, as
previously set by
.IR sethostname .
The parameter
.I namelen
specifies the size of the
.I name
array.
The returned name is null-terminated and truncated if insufficient
space is provided.
.PP
.I Sethostname
sets the name of the host machine to be
.IR name ,
which has length
.IR namelen .
This call is restricted to the superuser and
is normally used only when the system is bootstrapped.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the call succeeds a value of 0 is returned.
If the call
fails, then a value of \-1 is returned and an error code is
placed in the global location \f2errno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS"
The following errors may be returned by these calls:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The \f2name\fP or \f2namelen\fP parameter gave an
invalid address.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller tried to set the hostname and was not the superuser.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The \f2namelen\fP parameter was too large.
.SH SEE ALSO
gethostid(2)
.SH BUGS
Hostnames are limited to MAXHOSTNAMELEN (from
.IR <sys/param.h> )
characters, currently 256.
