'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.getmountid @(#)getmountid	1.1 of 6/20/95
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} getmountid 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} getmountid 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} getmountid 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} getmountid "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4getmountid\f1 \- get filesystem mount identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/mount.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int getmountid (const char *path, mountid_t *buf);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4getmountid\fP
returns an identifier for the filesystem containing the file named
by
\f4path\fP.
Read, write, or execute permission for the named file
is not required,
but all directories
listed in the
path name
leading to the file must be searchable.
\f4buf\fP
is a pointer to a mountid structure that is filled by
the system call.
.PP
The identifier returned is guaranteed to be unique for the mounted
filesystem within the running system, except for autofs's lofs filesystems.  
The identifier is not guaranteed to be unique across systems, and it is not 
guaranteed to persist across reboots or even across mounts of the given 
filesystem. The identifier returned by lofs filesystems is
that of the mounted filesystem that lofs is providing access to via a loopback
mount. Therefore, for lofs filesystems the combination of getmountid and 
lstat's st_rdev must be used to identify uniqueness.
.PP
\f4getmountid\fP
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EACCES\fP
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
\f4EFAULT\fP
.I path
or
.I buf
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
\f4EINTR\fP
A signal was caught during \f4getmountid\f1 execution.
.TP 15
\f4EIO\fP
An I/O error occurred while reading the file system.
.TP 15
\f4ELOOP\fP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP 15
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
The length of a \f2path\f1 component
exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} characters,
or the length of
.I path\^
exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1} characters.
.TP 15
\f4ENOENT\fP
Either a component of the path prefix or the file referred to by
.I path\^
does not exist.
.TP 15
\f4ENOLINK\fP
.I path\^
points to a remote machine and the link to that machine is no longer
active.
.TP 15
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
A component of the path prefix of
.I path\^
is not a directory.
.PP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4statvfs\fP(2)
