'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.getpid @(#)getpid	41.3 of 4/10/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} getpid 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} getpid 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} getpid 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} getpid "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4getpid\f1, \f4getpgrp\f1, \f4getppid\f1, \f4getpgid\f1, \f4BSDgetpgrp\f1 \- get process, process group, and parent process \s-1ID\s+1s
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/types.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4pid_t getpid(void);\f1
.PP
\f4pid_t getpgrp(void);\f1
.PP
\f4pid_t getppid(void);\f1
.PP
\f4pid_t getpgid(pid_t pid);\f1
.PP
\f4pid_t BSDgetpgrp(pid_t pid);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4getpid\fP
returns the process
.SM ID
of the calling process.
.PP
\f4getpgrp\fP
returns the process group
.SM ID
of the calling process.  The \f4BSDgetpgrp\fP form is provided
for Berkeley compatiblity.  If the pid_t is 0, it is the same
as the \f4getpgrp\fP form, otherwise it returns the process group
for the argument, if the process exists.
.PP
\f4getppid\fP
returns the parent process
.SM ID
of the calling process.
.PP
\f4getpgid\fP
returns the process group
.SM ID
of the process whose process ID is equal to
.I pid,\^
or the process group
.SM ID
of the calling process, if
.I pid\^
is equal to zero.
.PP
\f4getpgid\fP will fail if one or more of the following is true:
.TP 15
\f4EPERM\fP
The process whose process 
.SM ID
is equal to
.I pid\^
is not in the same session as the calling process, and
the implementation does not allow access to the process group
.SM ID 
of that process from the calling process.
.TP 15
\f4ESRCH\fP
There is no process with a process
.SM ID
equal to \f2pid\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4exec\fP(2), \f4fork\fP(2), \f4getpid\fP(2), \f4getsid\fP(2), \f4intro\fP(2), \f4setpgid\fP(2), \f4setsid\fP(2)
\f4setpgrp\fP(2), \f4signal\fP(2).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion,
\f4getpgid\fP
returns a process group
.SM ID\*S.
Otherwise, a value of
(\f4pid_t\f1) \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)getpid.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
