'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.ioctl @(#)ioctl	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ioctl 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ioctl 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ioctl 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ioctl "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4ioctl\f1 \- control device
.Op c p a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <stropts.h>\fP
.PP
\f4int ioctl (int fildes, int request, ...); \f1
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
\f4integer *4 function ioctl (fildes, request, arg) \f1
.PP
\f4integer*4 fildes, request, arg \f1
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4ioctl\fP
performs a variety of control functions on devices and \s-1STREAMS\s0.
For non-\s-1STREAMS\s0 files, the functions performed by this call are 
device-specific
control functions.
\f2request\f1 and an optional third argument with varying type
are passed to the file designated by \f2fildes\f1
and are interpreted by the device driver.
.PP
For \s-1STREAMS\s0 files, specific functions are performed by
the \f4ioctl\fP call as described in \f4streamio\fP(7).  Argument types and
other \f2request\fP-specific information found in \f4streamio\fP(7) take precedence
over information found in this manual page.
.PP
.I fildes\^
is an open file descriptor that refers to a device.
.I request\^
selects the control function to be performed
and depends on the device being addressed.  Many devices do not
require that the device be opened in a writable mode in order to
successfully perform
.I ioctls
that change the device parameters, or even the contents of the media
for devices with permanent storage.
.I arg\^
represents a third argument that has additional information
that is needed by this specific device
to perform the requested function.
The data type of
.I arg\^
depends upon the particular control request,
but it is generally either an \f4int\f1
or a pointer to a device-specific data structure.
.PP
In addition to device-specific and \s-1STREAMS\s0 functions,
generic functions are provided by more than one device driver,
for example, the general terminal interface [see
\f4termio\fP(7)].
.PP
The following operations are generally available on all 
descriptors [see \f4streamio\fP(7)]:
.TP 15
\f4FIONBIO\fP
Enables or disables non-blocking I/O on \f2fildes\fP.
.I arg \^
is a pointer to an \f3int\fP whose value should be 1 to enable non-blocking
I/O or 0 to disable non-blocking I/O.  This operation is not currently
supported on old-style (non-STREAMS) pipes.
.TP 15
\f4FIONREAD\fP
Returns the number of bytes of data currently available to be read on
\f2fildes\fP.
.I arg\^
is a pointer to a \f3size_t\fP into which the byte-count will be stored.
.PP
\f4ioctl\fP
fails for any type of file
if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EACCES\fP
The type of access requested on the file designated by \f2fildes\fP
is denied.
.TP 15
\f4EBADF\fP
.I fildes\^
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
\f4ENOTTY\fP
.I fildes\^
is not associated with a device driver
that accepts control functions.
.TP
\f4EINTR\fP
A signal was caught during the
\f4ioctl\fP
system call.
.PP
\f4ioctl\fP
also fails if the device driver detects
an error.  In this case, the
error is passed through
\f4ioctl\fP
without change to the caller.
A particular driver might not have all of the following error cases.
Under the following conditions,
requests to device drivers may fail
and set \f4errno\f1 to:
.TP 15
.TP
\f4EFAULT\fP
.I request\^
requires a data transfer to or from
a buffer pointed to by
.IR arg ,
but some part of the buffer is outside
the process's allocated space.
.TP
\f4EINVAL\fP
.I request\^
or
.I arg\^
is not valid for this device.
.TP
\f4EIO\fP
Some physical I/O error has occurred.
.TP
\f4ENXIO\fP
The
.I request\^
and
.I arg\^
are valid for this device driver,
but the service requested can not be performed
on this particular subdevice.
.TP
\f4ENOLINK\fP
\f2fildes\f1 is on a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
\f4ETIMEDOUT\fP
\f2fildes\f1 is on a remote machine
which is not available [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.PP
\s-1STREAMS\s0 errors are described in \f4streamio\fP(7).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4streamio\fP(7),
\f4termio\fP(7)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion,
the value returned depends upon the device control function,
but must be a non-negative integer. 
Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)ioctl.2
.Ee
