'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)listen.2	6.2 (Berkeley) 5/14/86
.\"
.TH LISTEN 2 
.UC 5
.SH NAME
listen \- listen for connections on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.B "int listen (int s, int backlog);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
To accept connections, a socket
is first created with
.IR socket (2),
a willingness to accept incoming connections and
a queue limit for incoming connections are specified with
.IR listen (2),
and then each new connection is
accepted with
.IR accept (2).
The
.I listen
call applies only to sockets of type
SOCK_STREAM.
.\"or
.\"SOCK_SEQPACKET.
.PP
The
.I backlog
parameter defines the maximum length the queue of
pending connections.
If a connection
request arrives with the queue full the client may
receive an error with an indication of ECONNREFUSED,
or, if the underlying protocol supports retransmission,
the request may be ignored so that retries may succeed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 return value indicates success; \-1 indicates an error.
.SH "ERRORS
The call fails if:
.TP 20
[EBADF]
The argument \f2s\fP is not a valid descriptor.
.TP 20
[ENOTSOCK]
The argument \f2s\fP is not a socket.
.TP 20
[EOPNOTSUPP]
The socket is not of a type that supports the operation \f2listen\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
accept(2), connect(2), socket(2)
.SH NOTES
The
.I backlog
is currently limited (silently) to 1000.
.PP
The system actually enforces the
limit of pending connections as
.br
.in +1.0i
((3 * backlog) / 2) + 1
.in -1.0i
.br
For example, a
backlog of 32 will allow 49 outstanding connections.
.PP
ABI-compliant versions of the above call can be obtained from
.IR libsocket.so .
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
