'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.mkdir @(#)mkdir	30.7 of 2/11/86
.TH mkdir 2
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make a directory
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/types.h>\f1
\f3#include <sys/stat.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f3int mkdir (const char \(**path, mode_t mode);\f1
.fi
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3integer *4 function mkdir (path, mode)\f1
\f3character * (*) path\f1
\f3integer *4 mode\f1
.fi
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mkdir 
creates a
new directory with
the name
.I path.
The mode of the new
directory is
initialized from
.I mode
(see
.IR chmod (2)
for values of
.IR mode ].
The protection part of
.I mode
is modified by the process's mode mask
(see
.IR umask (2)).
The \f4S_ISGID\fP, \f4S_ISUID\fP, and \f4S_ISVTX\fP bits are silently deleted
from
.IR mode .
.PP
The directory's owner
ID
is set to
the process's effective user
ID.
The directory's group
ID
is set to the
process's effective group
ID
or the group
ID
of the directory in which the directory is being created.
This is determined as follows:
.PP
If the underlying filesystem was mounted with
the
BSD
file creation semantics flag (see
.IR fstab (4))
or the
.B S_ISGID
bit is set (see
.IR chmod (2))
on the parent directory, then the group
ID
of the new  is set to the group
ID
of the parent directory, otherwise it is set to the
effective group
ID
of the calling process.
.PP
The newly created directory is empty
with the possible exception
of entries for itself (.)
and its parent directory (..).
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.I mkdir
marks for update the
\f3st_atime\fP,
\f3st_ctime\fP
and
\f3st_mtime\fP
fields of the directory.
Also, the
\f3st_ctime\fP
and
\f3st_mtime\fP
fields of the directory that contains the
new entry are marked for update.
.PP
.I mkdir
will fail and no directory will be
created if one or more of the following
are true:
.TP 17
[ENOTDIR]
A component of
the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
[ENOENT]
A component of the
path prefix
does not exist.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"[ENOLINK]
.\".I Path
.\"points to a remote machine and the link to that
.\"machine is no longer active.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"[EMULTIHOP]
.\"Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to multiple
.\"remote machines.
.TP
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds
.IR {PATH_MAX} ,
or a pathname component is longer than
.IR {NAME_MAX} .
.TP
[EACCES]
Either
a component of the
path prefix
denies search permission
or write permission is
denied on the parent
directory of the directory
to be created.
.TP
[EEXIST]
The named file
already exists.
.TP
[EROFS]
The path prefix resides
on a read-only filesystem.
.TP
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.TP
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
[EMLINK]
The maximum number of links to the parent directory would
exceed
.IR {LINK_MAX} .
.TP
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new directory is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the filesystem 
containing the directory or
the new directory cannot be created because
there is no space left on the filesystem 
that will contain the directory or
there are no free inodes on the filesystem on which the
directory is being created.
.TP
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new directory
is being placed cannot be extended either because the
user's quota of disk blocks on the filesystem
containing the directory has been exhausted or
the new directory cannot be created because the user's
quota of disk blocks on the filesystem that will
contain the directory has been exhausted or
the user's quota of inodes on the filesystem on
which the directory is being created has been exhausted.
.TP
[EIO]
An I/O error has occurred while accessing the filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
mkdir(1),
chmod(2),
mknod(2),
umask(2),
unlink(2),
fstab(4),
stat(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
