'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.mknod @(#)mknod	30.8 of 3/17/86
.TH MKNOD 2
.SH NAME
mknod \- make a directory, or a special or ordinary file
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <sys/types.h>"
.br
.B "#include <sys/stat.h>"
.sp
.B "int mknod (const char \(**path, mode_t mode, dev_t dev);"
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.B "integer *4 function mknod (path, mode, dev)"
.br
.B "character * (*) path"
.br
.B "integer *4 mode, dev"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mknod\^
creates a new file named by the path name pointed to by
.IR path .
The mode of the new file (including file type bits) is initialized from
.IR mode .
The value of the file type bits which are permitted with this system
call are those listed below.  The other types listed in \f3sys/stat.h\fP
are made with other system calls, or are not supported by this operating
system.
.sp
.in +10
.SM
.B  S_IFIFO
fifo special
.br
.SM
.B S_IFCHR
character special
.br
.SM
.B S_IFBLK
block special
.br
.SM
.B S_IFREG
ordinary file
.PP
All other mode bits are interpreted as described in
.IR chmod (2).
.PP
The owner
.SM ID
of the file
is set to the effective
user
.SM ID\*S
of the process.
The group
.SM ID
of the file
is set to the effective group
.SM ID\*S
of the process or the group
.SM ID
of the directory in which the file is being created.
This is determined as follows:
.sp
.in +.5i
If the underlying filesystem was mounted with
the
.SM BSD
file creation semantics flag [see
.IR fstab (4)]
or the
.SM
.B S_ISGID
bit is set [see
.IR chmod (2)]
on the parent directory, then the group
.SM ID
of the new file is set to the group
.SM ID
of the parent directory, otherwise it is set to the
effective group
.SM ID
of the calling process.
.in -.5i
.PP
Values of
.I mode
other than those above are undefined
and should not be used.
The low-order 9 bits of
.I mode
are modified by
the process's file mode creation mask:
all bits set in the process's file mode creation mask are cleared
[see
.IR umask (2)].
If
.I mode\^
indicates a block or character special file,
.I dev\^
is a configuration-dependent
specification of a character or block I/O device.
If
.I mode\^
does not indicate a block special or character special device,
.I dev\^
is ignored.
.PP
.I mknod\^
may be invoked only by the super-user for file types other than
.SM FIFO
special.
.PP
.I mknod\^
will fail and the new file will not be created
if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 17
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The effective user
.SM ID
of the process
is not super-user.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
A component of the
path prefix
does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EROFS]
The directory in which the file is to be created
is located on a read-only file system.
.TP
.SM
\%[EEXIST]
The named file exists.
.TP
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I Path\^
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds
.SM
.IR {PATH_MAX} ,
or a pathname component is longer than
.SM
.IR {NAME_MAX} .
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new directory is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file
system containing the directory or
the new directory cannot be created because there
is no space left on the file
system that will contain the directory or
there are no free inodes on the file system on which the
directory is being created.
.TP
.SM
\%[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new node
is being placed cannot be extended either because the
user's quota of disk blocks on the file system
containing the directory has been exhausted or
the user's quota of inodes on the file system on
which the node is being created has been exhausted.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"\%[ENOLINK]
.\"\f2Path\f1 points to a remote machine and the link
.\"to that machine is no longer active.
.\".TP
.\".SM
.\"\%[EMULTIHOP]
.\"Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to multiple
.\"remote machines.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
If you create files of the type
fifo special,
character special,
or
block special
on an NFS-mounted file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(1),
chmod(2), exec(2), mkdir(2), umask(2), fstab(4)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.\".SH "WARNING"
.\"If \f3mknod\f1 is used to create a device in a remote directory
.\"(Remote File Sharing), the major and minor device numbers
.\"are interpreted by the server.
.\"	@(#)mknod.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
