'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MPIN 2
.SH NAME
mpin, munpin \- lock pages in memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "int mpin (void \(**addr, size_t);"
.PP
.B "int munpin (void \(**addr, size_t);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mpin\fP reads into memory all pages over the range
(\f2addr, addr + len\fP\^),
and locks the pages into memory.
Associated with each locked page is a counter which
is incremented each time the page is locked.
The super-user can lock as many pages as it wishes, other users are limited
to a configurable per process maximum.
.PP
\f4munpin\fP decrements the lock counter associated with the pages
over the range (\f2addr, addr + len\fP\^).
Pages whose counters are zero are
available to be swapped out at the system's discretion.
.PP
\f4mpin\fP or \f4munpin\fP will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The addresses specified by \f2(addr, addr + len)\fP
are not mapped into the user's address space.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EAGAIN]
There was insufficient lockable memory to lock the entire address range
\f2(addr, addr + len\fP\^).
This may occur even though the amount requested was less than the
system-imposed maximum number of locked pages.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EBUSY]
\f4munpin\f1 will fail with this error if the address range specified has 
some active \f4I/O\f1 initiated by some other process belonging to same 
share group.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOMEM]
The caller was not super-user and the number of pages
to be locked exceeded the per process
limit \f2{PLOCK_MAX}\fP [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOMEM]
The total number of pages locked by the caller would exceed the
maximum resident size for the process [see
.IR setrlimit (2)].
.TP
[ENOSPC]
The address range (\f2addr, addr + len\f1) contains a
memory-mapped file, and there is insufficient space on the device to
allocate the entire file.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(2), getrlimit(2), mlock(3C), mlockall(3C), plock(2), ulimit(2).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f4mpin\fP and \f4munpin\fP return 0.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
.SH WARNING
The functions \f4mpin/munpin\fP and \f4mlock/munlock\fP provide similar
functionality.  The major difference between the two sets is that 
\f4mpin/munpin\fP maintains a per page lock counter and \f4mlock/munlock\fP
does not. Developers should choose the set that best suites their 
application and stick with it, as mixing the interfaces may result in
unexpected behavior.
