'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.msgget @(#)msgget	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} msgget 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} msgget 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} msgget 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} msgget "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4msgget\f1 \- get message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/types.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <sys/ipc.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <sys/msg.h>\f1
.PP
.nf
\f4int msgget(key_t key, int msgflg);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4msgget\fP
returns the message queue identifier associated with
.IR key .
.\"If the Enhanced Security Utilities are installed,
.\"the \f2key\fP values are kept on a per-level basis;  i.e., \f2msgget\fP
.\"searches only among \f2key\fP values at the Mandatory Access Control
.\"level of the calling process.
.PP
A message queue identifier and associated message queue and data structure
[see
\f4intro\fP(2)]
are created for
.I key
if one of the following are true:
.IP 
.I key
is
\f4IPC_PRIVATE\f1.
.IP
.I key
does not already have a message queue identifier associated with it, and
(\f2msgflg\f4&IPC_CREAT\f1)
is true.
.PP
On creation, the data structure associated with the new message queue
identifier is initialized as follows:
.IP
\f4msg_perm.cuid\f1, \f4msg_perm.uid\f1,
\f4msg_perm.cgid\f1, and \f4msg_perm.gid\f1
are set to the effective user
.SM ID
and effective group
.SM ID\*S,
respectively, of the calling process.
.IP
The low-order 9 bits of
\f4msg_perm.mode\f1
are set to the low-order 9 bits of
.IR msgflg .
.IP
\f4msg_qnum\f1, \f4msg_lspid\f1, \f4msg_lrpid\f1,
\f4msg_stime\f1, and \f4msg_rtime\f1
are set to 0.
.IP
\f4msg_ctime\f1
is set to the current time.
.IP
\f4msg_qbytes\f1
is set to the system limit.
.IP
.\"If the Enhanced Security Utilities are installed and running,
.\"an access control list (ACL) is created for the message queue and set
.\"empty.
.PP
\f4msgget\fP
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EACCES\fP
A message queue identifier exists for
.IR key ,
but operation permission [see
\f4intro\fP(2)]
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.I msgflg
would not be granted. 
.TP
\f4ENOENT\fP
A message queue identifier does not exist for
.I key
and
(\f2msgflg\f4&IPC_CREAT\f1)
is false.
.TP
\f4ENOSPC\fP
A message queue identifier is to be created but
the system-imposed limit on the maximum number of
allowed message queue identifiers system wide
would be exceeded.
.TP
\f4EEXIST\fP
A message queue identifier exists for
.I key
but (\f2msgflg\f4&IPC_CREAT\f1) and (\f2msgflg\f4&IPC_EXCL\f1)
are both true.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4intro\fP(2), \f4msgctl\fP(2), \f4msgop\fP(2), \f4stdipc\fP(3C).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion,
a non-negative integer,
namely a message queue identifier, is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)msgget.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
