'\"macro stdmacro
.Op c p a
.TH saton 2
.SH NAME
saton, satoff, satstate \- control the collection of audit data
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/sat.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f3int saton (int eventtype);\f1
\f3int satoff (int eventtype);\f1
\f3int satstate (int eventtype);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I saton
switches
\f3 on
collection of audit records of the specified event type.
.PP
.I satoff
switches
\f3 off
collection of audit records of the specified event type.
.PP
.I satstate
reports whether the audit subsystem is currently
collecting or discarding records of the event type specified.
.PP
To modify or query the audit state for every event type, call
.I saton,
.I satoff,
or
.I satstate
repeatedly, once for each valid event type.
.SH ERRORS
.I saton, satoff
and
.I satstate
fail if
one or more of the following conditions are
true:
.TP 15
[ENOPKG]
Audit is not configured on this system.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller does not have \fBCAP_AUDIT_CONTROL\fP capability.
.TP
[EDOM]
The specified audit event type is not valid.
Valid event type numbers range from 1 to SAT_NTYPES-1, inclusive.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
For
.I satstate,
a non-zero (positive) return value indicates that the audit subsystem is
collecting records.
A return value of 0 indicates that the audit subsystem is discarding records.
A return value of \-1 indicates an error and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.PP
For
.I saton
and
.I satoff,
a return value of \-1 indicates an error and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
Otherwise 0 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
satread(2),
satwrite(2)
.SH "ORIGIN"
Silicon Graphics, Inc.
