'\"macro stdmacro
.Op c p a
.TH satwrite 2
.SH NAME
satwrite, satvwrite \- write a block of audit record data
.SH C SYNOPSIS
\f3#include <sys/sat.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f3int satwrite (int event, int outcome, char *buffer, unsigned nbytes)\f1
.sp .6v
\f3#include <stdarg.h>\f1
\f3#include <sat.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f3int satvwrite (int event, int outcome, char *format, ...)\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I satwrite
writes
.I nbytes
bytes to the security audit trail record queue from the buffer pointed to by
.IR buffer .
.PP
.I satvwrite
is a more convenient libc interface for generating audit records,
which are generally text strings.
.I Format
is a printf-like format string, followed by a variable number of arguments.
See
.IR printf (3S)
for more information on the possible formatting characters.
.PP
.I Event
must be equal to one of the SAT record type constants
for administrative events, as defined in
.I /usr/include/sys/sat.h.
Permissible values are:
.TP 20
.B SAT_AE_AUDIT
.I satwrite
is called by audit subsystem utilities.
.TP 20
.B SAT_AE_IDENTITY
.I satwrite
is called by programs in the identification and authentication subsystem.
.TP 20
.B SAT_AE_DBEDIT
.I satwrite
is called by the program which edits administrative databases.
.TP 20
.B SAT_AE_MOUNT
.I satwrite
is called by the programs which mount filesystems.
.TP 20
.B SAT_AE_CUSTOM
.I satwrite
is called by customer written self auditing applications.
.PP
.I outcome
should be equal to
.B SAT_SUCCESS
or
.BR SAT_FAILURE ,
as defined in
.I /usr/include/sys/sat.h.
.I satwrite
interprets any value other than
.B SAT_FAILURE
as an alternate representation of
.BR SAT_SUCCESS .
.PP
.I Buffer
should contain audit data in human readable form.
Although there are no restrictions on its content,
.IR sat_interpret (1m)
always interprets the data as a null-terminated string.
.SH ERRORS
.I satwrite
fails if these conditions are true:
.TP 15
[ENOPKG]
Audit is not configured on this system.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller does not have \fBCAP_AUDIT_WRITE\fP capability.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
.I buffer
is null, or
.I nbytes
is greater than
.BR SAT_MAX_USER_REC .
.TP 15
[EDOM]
.I event
is not one of the permitted values.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
data can't be copied from
.I buffer
into the kernel.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
A return value of
.B \-1
indicates an error and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
Otherwise
.B 0
is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sat_echo(1m),
satoff(2),
saton(2),
satread(2),
satstate(2),
printf(3S)
