'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.semop @(#)semop	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} semop 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} semop 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} semop 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} semop "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4semop\f1 \- semaphore operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/types.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <sys/ipc.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <sys/sem.h>\f1
.PP
.nf
\f4int semop(int semid, struct sembuf \(**sops, size_t nsops); \f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4semop\fP
is used to perform atomically an array of semaphore operations on the
set of semaphores associated with the semaphore identifier specified by
.IR semid .
.I sops
is a pointer to the array of semaphore-operation structures.
.I nsops
is the number of such structures in the array.
The contents of each structure includes the following members:
.PP
.RS
.ta 8n 20n
.nf
.ft 4
short	sem_num;	/\(** semaphore number \(**/
short	sem_op;	/\(** semaphore operation \(**/
short	sem_flg;	/\(** operation flags \(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Each semaphore operation specified by
.I sem_op
is performed on the corresponding semaphore specified by
.IR semid " and " sem_num .
.PP
.I sem_op
specifies one of three semaphore operations as follows,
depending on whether its value is negative, positive, or zero:
.PP
If
.I sem_op
is a negative integer, one of the following occurs:
.SM \%{ALTER}
.IP "" 5
If \f4semval\fP [see
\f4intro\fP(2)]
is greater than or equal to the absolute value of
.IR sem_op ,
the absolute value of
.I sem_op
is subtracted from \f4semval\fP.
Also, if
(\f2sem_flg\f4&SEM_UNDO\f1)
is true, the absolute value of
.I sem_op
is added to the calling process's \f4semadj\fP value [see
\f4exit\fP(2)]
for the specified semaphore.
.IP
If \f4semval\fP is less than the absolute value of
.I sem_op
and
(\f2sem_flg\f4&IPC_NOWAIT\f1)
is true,
\f4semop\fP
returns immediately.
.IP
If \f4semval\fP is less than the absolute value of
.I sem_op
and
(\f2sem_flg\f4&IPC_NOWAIT\f1)
is false,
\f4semop\fP
increments the \f4semncnt\fP associated with the specified semaphore
and suspends execution of the calling process 
until one of the following conditions occur.
.IP "" 8
\f4semval\fP becomes greater than or equal to the absolute value of
.IR sem_op .
When this occurs, the value of \f4semncnt\fP associated with the specified
semaphore is decremented, the absolute value of
.I sem_op
is subtracted from \f4semval\fP and, if
(\f2sem_flg\f4&SEM_UNDO\f1)
is true, the absolute value of
.I sem_op
is added to the calling process's \f4semadj\fP value for the specified semaphore.
.IP
The
.I semid
for which the calling process is awaiting action
is removed from the system [see
\f4semctl\fP(2)].
When this occurs,
\f4errno\fP
is set equal to
\f4EIDRM\fP,
and a value of \-1 is returned.
.IP
The calling process receives a signal that is to be caught.
When this occurs, the value of \f4semncnt\fP associated with the specified
semaphore is decremented,
and the calling process resumes execution in the manner prescribed in
\f4signal\fP(2).
.PP
If
.I sem_op
is a positive integer, the value of
.I sem_op
is added to \f4semval\fP
and, if
(\f2sem_flg\f4&SEM_UNDO\f1)
is true, the value of
.I sem_op
is subtracted from the calling process's \f4semadj\fP value for the specified
semaphore.
.SM \%{ALTER}
.PP
If
.I sem_op
is zero,
one of the following occurs:
.SM \%{READ}
.IP "" 5
If \f4semval\fP is zero,
\f4semop\fP
returns immediately.
.IP
If \f4semval\fP is not equal to zero and
(\f2sem_flg\f4&IPC_NOWAIT\f1)
is true,
\f4semop\fP
returns immediately.
.IP
If \f4semval\fP is not equal to zero and
(\f2sem_flg\f4&IPC_NOWAIT\f1)
is false,
\f4semop\fP
increments the \f4semzcnt\fP associated with the specified semaphore
and suspends execution of the calling process until
one of the following occurs:
.IP "" 8
Semval becomes zero, at which time the value of \f4semzcnt\fP associated with the
specified semaphore is decremented.
.IP
The
.I semid
for which the calling process is awaiting action
is removed from the system.
When this occurs,
\f4errno\fP
is set equal to
\f4EIDRM\fP,
and a value of \-1 is returned.
.IP
The calling process receives a signal that is to be caught.
When this occurs, the value of \f4semzcnt\fP associated with the specified
semaphore is decremented,
and the calling process resumes execution in the manner prescribed in
\f4signal\fP(2).
.PP
\f4semop\fP
fails if one or more of the following are true for any of the semaphore
operations specified by
.IR sops :
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
.I semid
is not a valid semaphore identifier.
.TP
\f4EFBIG\fP
.I sem_num
is less than zero or greater than or equal to the number of semaphores
in the set associated with
.IR semid .
.TP
\f4E2BIG\fP
.I nsops
is greater than the system-imposed maximum.
.TP
\f4EACCES\fP
Operation permission is denied to the calling process [see
\f4intro\fP(2)].
.TP
\f4EAGAIN\fP
The operation would result in suspension of the calling process but
(\f2sem_flg\f4&IPC_NOWAIT\f1)
is true.
.TP
\f4ENOSPC\fP
The limit on the number of individual processes requesting an
\f4SEM_UNDO\f1
would be exceeded.
.TP
\f4EINVAL\fP
The number of individual semaphores for which the calling process
requests a
\f4SEM_UNDO\f1
would exceed the limit.
.TP
\f4ERANGE\fP
An operation would cause a \f4semval\fP to overflow the system-imposed limit.
.TP
\f4ERANGE\fP
An operation would cause a \f4semadj\fP value to overflow the
system-imposed limit.
.TP
\f4EFAULT\fP
.I sops
points to an illegal address.
.TP
\f4EIDRM\fP
A
.I semid
referenced by the call was removed from the system.
.PP
Other errors which can occur on \f4semop\fP are:
.TP 15
\f4EINTR\fP
\f4semop\fP(2) was interrupted by a signal.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the value of \f4sempid\fP
for each semaphore specified in the array pointed to by
.I sops
is set equal to the process
.SM ID
of the calling process.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4intro\fP(2),
\f4exec\fP(2), \f4exit\fP(2), \f4fork\fP(2),
\f4semctl\fP(2), \f4semget\fP(2).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.RI If " semop"
returns due to the receipt of a signal, a value of \-1 is returned to the
calling process and
\f4errno\fP
is set to
\f4EINTR\fP.
If it returns due to the removal of a
.I semid
from the system, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to
\f4EIDRM\fP.
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)semop.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
