'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)send.2	6.3 (Berkeley) 5/14/86
.\"
.if n .pH man2.send @(#)send	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH SEND 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
send, sendto, sendmsg \- send a message from a socket 
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp .5
.br
.B "int send\|(int s, const void \(**msg, int len, int flags);"
.sp .5
.br
.B "int sendto\|(int s, const void \(**msg, int len, int flags,"
.br
.B "		struct sockaddr \(**to, int tolen);"
.sp .5
.br
.B "int sendmsg\|(int s, const struct msghdr \(**msg, int flags);"
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.B "integer *4 function send (s, msg, len, flags)"
.br
.B "integer *4  s"
.br
.B "character * (*) msg"
.br
.B "integer *4  len, flags"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Send ,
.IR sendto ,
and
.I sendmsg
are used to transmit a message to another socket.
.I Send
may be used only when the socket is in a 
.I connected
state, while 
.I sendto
and
.I sendmsg
may be used when the socket is unconnected.
.PP
The address of the target is given by
.I to
with 
.I tolen
specifying its size.
The length of the message is given by
.IR len .
If the message is too long to pass atomically through the
underlying protocol, then the error EMSGSIZE is returned, and
the message is not transmitted.
.PP
Usually no indication of failure to deliver is implicit in a
.IR send .
Return values of \-1 indicate some locally detected errors.
Connected datagram sockets may receive error indications 
from a previous 
.IR send .
.PP
If no messages space is available at the socket to hold
the message to be transmitted, then
.I send
normally blocks, unless the socket has been placed in
non-blocking I/O mode.
The
.IR select (2)
call may be used to determine when it is possible to
send more data.
.PP
The
.I flags
parameter may include one or more of the following:
.PP
.nf
.\".RS
.\".ta \w'#define\ \ 'u +\w'MSG_DONTROUTE\ \ \ 'u +\w'0x\0\0\0\ \ 'u
#define	MSG_OOB		0x1	/* process out-of-band data */
.br
#define	MSG_DONTROUTE	0x4	/* bypass routing,
.br
					use direct interface */
.\".RE
.fi

.PP
The flag MSG_OOB is used to send \*(lqout-of-band\*(rq
data on sockets that support this notion (e.g., SOCK_STREAM);
the underlying protocol must also support \*(lqout-of-band\*(rq data.
MSG_DONTROUTE is usually used only by diagnostic or routing programs.
.PP
See 
.IR recv (2)
for a description of the
.I msghdr
structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The call returns the number of characters sent, or \-1
if an error occurred.
.SH "ERRORS
.TP 20
[EBADF]
An invalid descriptor was specified.
.TP 20
[ENOTSOCK]
The argument \f2s\fP is not a socket.
.TP 20
[EFAULT]
An invalid user space address was specified for a parameter.
.TP 20
[EMSGSIZE]
The socket requires that message be sent atomically,
and the size of the message to be sent made this impossible.
.TP 20
[EWOULDBLOCK]
The socket is marked non-blocking and the requested operation
would block.
.TP 20
[ENOBUFS]
The system was unable to allocate an internal buffer.
The operation may succeed when buffers become available.
.TP 20
[ENOBUFS]
The output queue for a network interface was full.
This generally indicates that the interface has stopped sending,
but may be caused by transient congestion.
.TP 20
[ECONNREFUSED]
The remote port was invalid when using the
.I send
call on a connected datagram socket.
.TP 20
[EISCONN]
A
.I sendto
or
.I sendmsg
call was used on a connected socket.
.TP 20
[EACCES]
The requested operation specified a broadcast address as the destination
but the SO_BROADCAST socket option was not enabled (see
.IR setsockopt (2)).
.TP 20
[EHOSTUNREACH]
The remote host was unreachable via the network.
.TP 20
[ENETUNREACH]
The remote network is unknown to the routing system.
.TP 20
[EHOSTDOWN]
The remote host was determined to be down, possibly due to a failure to resolve
its MAC-level address (see
.IR arp (7P)).
.SH SEE ALSO
fcntl(2), recv(2), select(2), getsockopt(2), socket(2), write(2)
.SH NOTE
ABI-compliant versions of the above call can be obtained from
.IR libsocket.so .
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
