.TH setash 2
.SH NAME
setash \- set array session handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/types.h>\f1
\f3#include <unistd.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3#int setash(ash_t ash);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2setash\f1 function changes the handle for the array session
containing the current process to the value specified by \f2ash\f1.
The current process must have superuser privileges to invoke
\f2setash\f1.
.PP
Ordinarily, a handle that is unique within the current system is
assigned to an array session when the array session is created using
the \f2newarraysess\f1(2) function.
The \f2setash\f1 function can be used to override this default handle,
perhaps for assigning a handle that is unique across an entire array
or for synchronizing handles with an array session on another system.
.PP
The handle specified by \f2ash\f1 must be a positive value, must not
be in use on the current system, and must not be in the range of
values that IRIX uses for default array session handles.
This range of default handles is defined by the system variables
\f3minash\f1 and \f3maxash\f1 and can be examined and/or modified
using \f2systune\f1(1).
.SH ERRORS
\f2setash\f1 may fail if one or more of these conditions are true:
.TP 10
\f3EINVAL\f1
\f2ash\f1 is negative, in use by another array session on
this system, or in the range of values reserved by the system for
default array session handles.
.TP
\f3EPERM\f1
The current process does not have superuser privileges.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
systune(1),
getash(2),
newarraysess(2),
array_sessions(5).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f2setash\f1 returns a value of 0.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is set to
indicate the error.
