.TH setspinfo 2
.SH NAME
setspinfo \- set service provider information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/extacct.h>\f1
\f3#include <unistd.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3int setspinfo(struct acct_spi *spi);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2setspinfo\f1 function sets the service provider information for
the array session containing the current process to the contents of
the \f3acct_spi\f1 struct pointed to by \f2spi\f1.
Typically, this would only be done when the array session is first
created.
The invoker must have superuser privileges.
.PP
Service provider information is intended for use by software such as
batch queueing systems that need to maintain fairly static information
about an array session.
It is included in session accounting records and can be retrieved by
any member of the array session.
Ordinarily, the service provider information for a new array session
is inherited from the array session of the process that created it;
\f2setspinfo\f1 can be used to override this default behavior.
.PP
The service provider information itself has no particular meaning to
IRIX.
For convenience, a suggested \f3acct_spi\f1 struct is defined in the
\f2<sys/extacct.h>\f1 header file and has the following layout:
.Ex
struct acct_spi {       /* Service provider information */
    char    spi_company[8];    /* Name of company providing service */
    char    spi_initiator[8];  /* Name of machine initiating job */
    char    spi_origin[16];    /* Name of queue */
    char    spi_spi[16];       /* Available for service provider */
    char    spi_spare[16];     /*   reserved */
}
.Ee
.PP
\f2setspinfo\f1 is provided primarily for compatibility with older
versions of IRIX.
A more general mechanism for setting the service provider information,
including the ability to save more or less than the 64 bytes of
data implied by \f3acct_spi\f1, is provided by the \f3ARSOP_SETSPI\f1
function of \f2arsop\f1(2).
.SH ERRORS
\f2setspinfo\f1 may fail if one or more of these conditions are true:
.TP 10
\f3EFAULT\f1
\f2spi\f1 points to an invalid location.
.TP
\f3EPERM\f1
The current process does not have superuser privileges.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
arsop(2),
getspinfo(2),
newarraysess(2),
array_sessions(5),
extacct(5).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f2setspinfo\f1 returns a value of 0.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is set to
indicate the error.
