'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SGI_EAG_MOUNT 2 
.Op c p a
.SH NAME
sgi_eag_mount \- mount a filesystem with attributes
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/eag.h>
.br
.B "int sgi_eag_mount(char *spec, char *dir, int mflag, char *fstyp, char *dataptr, int datalen, char *attrs);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sgi_eag_mount
is identical to \fBmount\fP(2), except that it accepts an additional argument
\fIattrs\fP, which contains a data block specifying default attributes
for the filesystem.
.PP
.I sgi_eag_mount
requires that the calling process have appropriate privilege. If
.B _POSIX_CAP
is in effect, the appropriate capability is \fBCAP_MOUNT_MGT\fP.
.SH ERRORS
.I sgi_eag_mount
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
\f4EACCES\fP
Search permission is denied on a component of \f2dir\fP or \f2spec\fP.
.\".TP
.\"\f4ENOTDIR\fP
.\"\f2dir\fP is a multilevel directory;  multilevel directories are
.\"supported only if the Enhanced Security Utilities are installed.
.TP
\f4EPERM\fP
The calling process does not have appropriate privilege.
.TP 20
\f4EBUSY\fP
.I dir\^
is currently mounted on, is someone's current working directory,
or is otherwise busy.
.TP
\f4EBUSY\fP
The device associated with
.I spec\^
is currently mounted.
.TP
\f4EBUSY\fP
There are no more
mount table entries.
.TP
\f4EFAULT\fP
.I spec\^,
.I dir\^,
.I datalen\^,
or
.I attrs
points outside the allocated address space of the process.
.TP
\f4EINVAL\fP
The super block has an invalid magic number
or the \f2fstyp\fP is invalid.
.\" or \f2mflag\f1 is not valid.
.TP
\f4ELOOP\fP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \f2spec\f1
or \f2dir\f1.
.TP
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
The length of the \f2path\f1 argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1 is in effect.
.TP
\f4ENOENT\fP
None of the named files exists or is a null pathname.
.TP
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
A component of a
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
\f4EREMOTE\fP
\f2spec\f1 is remote and cannot be mounted.
.TP
\f4ENOLINK\fP
\f2path\f1 points to a remote machine and
the link to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
\f4EMULTIHOP\fP
Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to
multiple remote machines
and the file system type does not allow it.
.TP
\f4ETIMEDOUT\fP
A component of \f2path\f1
is located on a remote file system which is not available [see \f4intro\fP(2)].
.TP
\f4ENOTBLK\fP
.I spec\^
is not a block special device.
.TP
\f4ENXIO\fP
The device associated with
.I spec\^
does not exist.
.TP
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
.I dir\^
is not a directory.
.TP
\f4EROFS\fP
.I spec\^
is write protected and
.I mflag\^
requests write permission.
.TP
\f4ENOSPC\fP
The file system state in the super-block
is not \f4FsOKAY\fP and
.I mflag\^
requests write permission.
.TP
\f4E2BIG\fP
The file system's size parameters are larger than the size of
special device
.I spec.
Either \f4mkfs\fP(1M) was run on a different overlapping device or the
device has been changed with \f4fx\fP(1M) since \f4mkfs\fP was run.
.TP
\f4EFSCORRUPTED\fP
The filesystem has a corruption forcing failure of the mount.
.TP
\f4EWRONGFS\fP
The wrong filesystem type was supplied in \f2fstyp\f1, or there
is no filesystem on \f2spec\f1.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(2).
