'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.shm_unlink @(#)shm_unlink	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} shm_unlink 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} shm_unlink 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} shm_unlink 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} shm_unlink "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4shm_unlink\f1 \- deletes a shared memory object
.PP
.SH C SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/mman.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int shm_unlink(const char \(**\f2path\fP);\f1
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I path\^
is a pointer to the character string, naming a shared memory object.
\f4shm_unlink\f1 deletes the named shared memory object from the file
namespace. The contents of the shared memory will persist after the
call to \f4shm_unlink\f1, if one or more processes still reference the
memory object. Once the last reference has been dropped, the space occupied
by the shared memory object is freed and the object ceases to exist
[see \f4close\fP(2) and \f4munmap\fP(2)].
.P
The named shared memory object is unlinked unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 20
\f4EACCES\f1
Search permission is denied for a component of the
\f2path\f1
prefix.
.TP
\f4EACCES\f1
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the shared memory
object to be removed and the process does not have the super-user
privilege.
.TP
\f4EACCES\f1
The parent directory has the sticky bit set and
the shared memory object is not writable by the user;
the user does not own the parent directory and
the user does not own the shared memory object.
.TP
\f4EACCES\fP
Write permission is denied on the shared memory object named by \f2path\fP.
.TP
\f4EFAULT\f1
\f2path\f1
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
\f4EINTR\f1
A signal was caught during the \f4shm_unlink\f1 system call.
.TP
\f4ELOOP\f1
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \f2path\f1.
.TP
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\f1
The length of the \f2path\f1 argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1 is in effect.
.TP
\f4ENOENT\f1
The named shared memory object does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
\f4ENOTDIR\f1
A component of the
\f2path\f1
prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
\f4EPERM\f1
The named shared memory object is a directory.
.TP
\f4EROFS\f1
The shared memory object to be unlinked is part of a
read-only file system.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4shm_open\f1(1),
\f4close\f1(2),
\f4mmap\f1(2),
\f4munmap\f1(2)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.Ee