'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.shmget @(#)shmget	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} shmget 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} shmget 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} shmget 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} shmget "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4shmget\f1 \- get shared memory segment identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/types.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <sys/ipc.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <sys/shm.h>\f1
.PP
.nf
\f4int shmget(key_t key, size_t size, int shmflg);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4shmget\fP
returns the shared memory identifier associated with
.IR key .
.\".P
.\"If the Enhanced Security Utilities are installed and running,
.\"the \f2key\fP values are kept on a per-level basis;  i.e., \f2shmget\fP
.\"searches only among \f2key\fP values at the same security level as the
.\"calling process.
.PP
A shared memory identifier and associated data structure and shared memory
segment of at least
.I size
bytes [see
\f4intro\fP(2)]
are created for
.I key
if one of the following are true:
.IP
.I key
is equal to
\f4IPC_PRIVATE\f1.
.IP
.I key
does not already have a shared memory identifier associated with it, and
(\f2shmflg\f4&IPC_CREAT\f1)
is true.
.PP
Upon creation, the contents of the shared memory segment
are initialized to zero,
and the data structure associated with the new shared memory
identifier is initialized as follows:
.IP
\f4shm_perm.cuid\f1, \f4shm_perm.uid\f1,
\f4shm_perm.cgid\f1, and \f4shm_perm.gid\f1
are set equal to the effective user
.SM ID
and effective group
.SM ID\*S,
respectively, of the calling process.
.IP
The access permission bits of
\f4shm_perm.mode\f1
are set equal to the access permission bits of
.IR shmflg .
\f4shm_segsz\f1
is set equal to the value of
.IR size .
.IP
\f4shm_lpid\f1, \f4shm_nattch\f1
\f4shm_atime\f1, and \f4shm_dtime\f1
are set equal to 0.
.IP
\f4shm_ctime\f1
is set equal to the current time.
.IP
.\"If the Enhanced Security Utilities are installed and running,
.\"an access control list (ACL) is created for the shared memory segment
.\"and set empty.
.PP
\f4shmget\fP
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
.I size
is less than the system-imposed minimum
or greater than the system-imposed maximum.
.TP
\f4EACCES\fP
A shared memory identifier exists for
.I key
but operation permission [see
\f4intro\fP(2)]
as specified by the low-order 9 bits of
.I shmflg
would not be granted. 
.TP
\f4EINVAL\fP
A shared memory identifier exists for
.I key
but the size of the segment associated with it is less than
.I size
and
.I size
is not equal to zero.
.TP
\f4ENOENT\fP
A shared memory identifier does not exist for
.I key
and
(\f2shmflg\f4&IPC_CREAT\f1)
is false.
.TP
\f4ENOSPC\fP
A shared memory identifier is to be created but
the system-imposed limit on the maximum number of
allowed shared memory identifiers system wide
would be exceeded.
.TP
\f4ENOMEM\fP
A shared memory identifier and associated shared memory segment are to be
created but the amount of available memory is not sufficient to
fill the request.
.TP
\f4EEXIST\fP
A shared memory identifier exists for
.I key
but both
(\f2shmflg\f4&IPC_CREAT\f1)
and
(\f2shmflg\f4&IPC_EXCL\f1)
are true.
.br
.ne 7v
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4intro\fP(2), \f4shmctl\fP(2), \f4shmop\fP(2), \f4stdipc\fP(3C), \f4ipcs\fP(1), \f4ipcrm\fP(1).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion,
a non-negative integer,
namely a shared memory identifier is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH NOTES
The user must explicitly remove shared memory segments
after the last reference to them has been removed.
.\"	@(#)shmget.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
