'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SIGPROCMASK 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
sigprocmask \- alter and return previous state of the set of
blocked signals (\s-1POSIX\s+1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.PP
.B "int sigprocmask(int operation, sigset_t \(**set, sigset_t \(**oset);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sigprocmask
manipulates the set of signals which are blocked from
delivery to the thread.
.PP
A non-\s-1NULL\s+1
.I set
specifies the set of signals to use in modifying the currently-active
set, and the incoming signals may be added to, deleted from, or completely
replace the active set, as specified by the 
.I operation
parameter, which may have the following values (as 
defined in 
.RI < signal.h >):
.LP
.nf
.ta \w'SIGVTALRM 'u +\w'15*  'u
\s-1\f3SIG_NOP\f1\s+1		Do not alter current signal mask
\s-1\f3SIG_BLOCK\f1\s+1		Add specified signals to those in current mask
\s-1\f3SIG_UNBLOCK\f1\s+1	Remove the specified signals from current mask
\s-1\f3SIG_SETMASK\f1\s+1	Replace current mask with incoming one
.fi
.PP
If 
.I oset
is not 
.SM NULL,
the current set of blocked signals (before modification) 
is returned in the space to which it points.  In this way, 
with a 
.SM NULL
.I set
and 
.SM
.B SIG_NOP
.I operation
the user can determine the current signal mask.
.PP
Routines described in 
.IR sigsetops (3)
are used to
create and examine the
.I set
and
.I oset
signal masks.
.PP
It is not possible to block 
.SM
.B SIGKILL
or
.SM
.BR SIGSTOP ;
this restriction is silently
imposed by the system.
.PP
.SM POSIX
specifies (contrary to 
.SM BSD
and System V) that a thread
.I may
block 
.SM
.BR SIGCONT .
However, a) \f3\s-1SIGCONT\s+1\fP
.I always
restarts the receiving thread (unless it is waiting for
an event such as \s-1I/O\s+1), and b) if the receiving process has
installed a handler for 
.SM
.B SIGCONT
and blocked the signal, the
thread will 
.SM NOT
enter its handler until it unblocks 
.SM
.BR SIGCONT .
(The signal will remain pending.)
.PP
\f2sigprocmask\fP will fail if:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
.I set
or
.I oset
point to memory that is not a part of the process's valid address space.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.I Operation
is not a valid set-operation (as described above: 
.SM
.BR SIG_NOP ,
.SM
.BR SIG_BLOCK ,
.SM
.BR SIG_UNBLOCK ,
or
.SM
.BR SIG_SETMASK ).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kill(2), sigaction(2), sigpending(2), sigsuspend(2), sigsetops(3). 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A 0 value indicates that the call succeeded.  A \-1 return value
indicates that an error occurred and
.I errno
is set to indicate the reason.
.SH "WARNING"
The \s-1POSIX\s+1 and System V signal facilities have different semantics.
Using both facilities in the same program is \f3strongly discouraged\fP
and will result in unpredictable behavior.
