'\"macro stdmacro
'\" @(#)sprofil.2 1.1 (SGI) 9/90
.\" Copyright 1990 SGI
.if n .pH man2.sprofil @(#)sprofil
.TH SPROFIL 2
.SH NAME
sprofil \- execution time profile for disjoint text spaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B \#include <sys/time.h>
.br
.B \#include <sys/profil.h>
.sp .5
.ft 3
int sprofil(struct prof \(**profp, int profcnt,
.br
            struct timeval \(**tvp, unsigned int flags);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sprofil
provides CPU-use statistics by profiling the amount of
CPU
time expended by a program in disjoint text spaces.
This is useful if you need to profile programs using shared libraries or 
profile an address space using different granularities for 
different sections of text.
.B sprofil
generates the
statistics by creating an execution histogram for a current process.
The histogram is defined for a list of regions of program code 
to be profiled
specified by members of the 
.I profp
array: profp[0], profp[1], ...,
profp[profcnt-1].
.PP
The 
.I prof
structure is defined as
.nf
.in 5
struct prof {
        void     \(**pr_base;	/* buffer base */
        unsigned pr_size;	/* buffer size */
        __psunsigned_t pr_off;	/* pc offset */
        unsigned pr_scale;	/* pc scaling */
};
.in -5
.fi
.PP
Each
.I prof
entry specifies a region of text space that needs to
be profiled, and the fields of the structure take on the same meaning
as the arguments of the 
.B profil(2)
system call.
.PP
.I pr_base
is a buffer of 
.I pr_size
bytes in which the histogram
counts are stored.
.PP
.I pr_off
, 
.I pr_scale
, and 
.I pr_size
specify the region to be profiled.
.PP
.I pr_off
is effectively the start address of the region to be profiled.
.PP
If non-NULL, \f2tvp\fP points to a \f2struct timeval\fP which on return will
contain the time value corresponding to one clock tick.
.PP
Valid \f2flags\fP values include \f3PROF_USHORT\fP and \f3PROF_UINT\fP,
which result in the \f2pr_base\fP field of
each \f2prof\fP entry being treated as a pointer to an array of \f2unsigned
short\fP or \f2unsigned int\fP, respectively.
You achieve a 1-1 mapping of instructions to counters for \f3PROF_USHORT\fP
and a \f2pr_scale\fP of 0x8000,
or \f3PROF_UINT\fP and a \f2pr_scale\fP of 0x10000.
Note that a 1-1 mapping of \f3PROF_UINT\fP counters consumes twice as much
space as for \f3PROF_USHORT\fP counters, and should only be used in those
cases where you expect a 16-bit counter to overflow.
.PP
Callers may also specify \f3PROF_FAST\fP in the \f2flags\fP field. This value
will provide more accurate profiling by forcing the system to take samples
once every millisecond. Fast profiling requests can reduce system performance
noticably. The tuneable system parameter \f3restrict_fastprof\fP can be used
to disable this feature.
.PP
If overlapping text regions are specified, then the 
.I pr_base
associated with the largest offset less than the value of the program
counter(PC) gets incremented.
If more than one text region has the same offset, the first one is chosen.
.PP
A text region with the 
.I pr_off
of 0 and 
.I pr_scale
of 0x0002 will
act as an overflow bin. Any PC value not previously matched or outside the
regions of text space specified is considered to match this text region and
the first counter of the specified 
.I pr_base
is incremented. If specified,
such an overflow bin should always be last in the list of specified regions.
.PP
.B sprofil
can fail with:
.TP 13
.SM
\%[E2BIG]
.I profcnt
was less than or equal to 0, or greater than 
.B PROFIL_MAX.
.TP 13
.SM
\%[EFAULT]
Either
.I profp
or
.I tvp
points to an illegal address.
.TP 13
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The overflow bin is not last in the list of specified regions,
or \f2flags\fP does not contain one of the values
(\f3PROF_USHORT\fP or \f3PROF_UINT\fP).
.TP 13
.SM
\%[EACCES]
The \f2flags\fP field specified \f3PROF_FAST\fP but the feature
has been disabled using the \f3restrict_fastprof\fP tuneable system
parameter or the hardware does not support fast clock ticks.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, 
.B sprofil
returns 0. Otherwise, a -1 is returned and the
global variable
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
profil(2), prof(1), times(2), monitor(3X),
intro(2).
.SH NOTES
Each call to 
.B sprofil
will disable any profiling enabled by previous
.B sprofil
calls.
Profiling is not enabled for a given text region if the value for
.I pr_scale
is 0 or 1,
and is rendered
ineffective by giving a
.I bufsiz
of 0.
Profiling is turned off for the specified region of text space if a
.I pr_base
update would cause a memory fault.
.PP
Profiling is turned off when an
.B exec(2)
is executed, but remains on in both child and parent 
processes after a
.B fork(2)
or a 
.B sproc(2).
A call to 
.B profil(2)
has the same effect as calling 
.B sprofil
with just one member in the 
.I profp
array with the fields \f2profcnt\fP, \f2tvp\fP and \f2flags\fP
taking on the values of 1, NULL and PROF_USHORT respectively.
.\"	@(#)sprofil.2	1.1 of 9/19/90
.Ee
