'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.sysinfo $Revision: 1.8 $
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} sysinfo 2 "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} sysinfo 2 "" ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} sysinfo 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} sysinfo "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4sysinfo\f1 \- get and set system information strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include \f1<\f4sys/systeminfo.h\f1>
.PP
\f4long sysinfo (int command, char \(**buf, long count);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4sysinfo\fP
copies information relating to the
UNIX
system on which the process is executing into the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf ;
\f4sysinfo\f1 can also set certain information where
appropriate \f2commands\fP are available.
\f2count\f1 is the size of the buffer.
.PP
The POSIX P1003.1 interface
\f4sysconf\fP [see \f4sysconf\fP(2)]
provides a similar class of configuration information,
but returns an integer rather than a string.
.PP
The
.IR command s
available are:
.TP 14n
\f4SI_SYSNAME
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
the string that would be returned by
\f4uname\fP [see \f4uname\fP(2)]
in the
.IR "sysname " field.
This is the name of the implementation of the operating system, for example,
.IR "System V " "or " UTS .
.TP
\f4SI_HOSTNAME
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
a string that names the present host machine.
This is the string that would be returned by
\f4uname\fP
in the
.IR "nodename " field.
This hostname or nodename is often the name the machine is known by locally.
.IP
The \f2hostname\fP is the name of this machine as a node in some network;
different networks may have different names for the node,
but presenting the nodename to the appropriate
network Directory or name-to-address mapping service should
produce a transport end point address.
The name may not be fully qualified.
.IP
Internet host names may be up to 256 bytes in
length (plus the terminating null).
.TP
\f4SI_SET_HOSTNAME
Copy the null-terminated contents of the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
into the string maintained by the kernel whose value will be
returned by succeeding calls to \f4sysinfo\fP with
the command \f4SI_HOSTNAME\fP.
This command requires that the effective-user-id be super-user.
.TP
\f4SI_RELEASE
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
the string that would be returned by
\f4uname\fP
in the
.IR "release " field.
Typical values might be
.IR 4.0 " or " 3.2 .
.TP
\f4SI_VERSION
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
the string that would be returned by
\f4uname\fP
in the
.IR "version " field.
The syntax and semantics of this string are defined by the system provider.
Under IRIX, this is the date and time that the system was generated and has the form \f3mmddhhmm\fP.
.TP
\f4SI_MACHINE
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
the string that would be returned by
\f4uname\fP
in the
.IR "machine " field,
for example,
.IR IP27 " or " IP30 .
.TP
\f4SI_ARCHITECTURE
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
a string describing the instruction set architecture of the
current system, for example,
\f2MIPS-II\fP, \f2m32100\fP, or \f2i80486\fP.
These names may not match predefined names in the C language compilation system.
.TP
\f4SI_HW_PROVIDER
Copies the name of the hardware manufacturer into the array
pointed to by \f2buf\fP.
.TP
\f4SI_HW_SERIAL
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP
a string which is the ASCII representation of the
32 bit hardware-specific identifier of the physical machine on which the
system call is executed.
Note that this may be implemented in Read-Only Memory, via software
constants set when building the operating system, or by other means,
and may contain non-numeric characters.
It is anticipated that manufacturers will not issue the same ``32-bit
identifier'' to more than one physical machine.
The pair of strings returned by \f4SI_HW_PROVIDER\fP
and \f4SI_HW_SERIAL\fP
is likely to be unique across all vendor's System V implementations.
.TP
\f4SI_SRPC_DOMAIN
This command is not supported under \f2IRIX\fP.
.TP
\f4SI_SET_SRPC_DOMAIN
This command is not supported under \f2IRIX\fP.
.TP
\f4SI_INITTAB_NAME\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string that is the
pathname of the \f4inittab\fP file used by the currently running
bootable operating system.
This is the same as the file specified by the \f4INITTAB\fP keyword
found in the \f4system\fP file [see \f4system\fP(4)].
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_VENDOR\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the name of the company providing the system. The vendor
is the company actually selling the product rather than the company
which built the product. Eg: "Silicon Graphics Inc".
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_OS_PROVIDER\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the name of the company providing the operating system. This is
the name of the company which built the operating system.
Eg: "Silicon Graphics Inc".
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_OS_NAME\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the name of the operating system. Eg: "IRIX".
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_HW_NAME\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the name of the hardware platform. This is the name
of the platform in the pricelist. Eg: "IP19"
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_NUM_PROCESSORS\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the ASCII representation of the number of configured
processors. Eg: "16"
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_HOSTID\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the ASCII representation of the host id in hex.
This example uses sgi.sgi.com, which has an internet address of
192.26.75.5. Eg: "c01a4b05"
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_OSREL_MAJ\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the ASCII representation of the  OS major release
number.
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_OSREL_MIN\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the ASCII representation of the OS minor release
number.
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_OSREL_PATCH\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the ASCII representation of the OS patch release number.
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_PROCESSORS\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the processor type. In the case of a multiprocessor,
this will be a comma separated list with _MIPS_SI_NUM_PROCESSORS
entries.
.TP
\f4_MIPS_SI_AVAIL_PROCESSORS\fP
Copy into the array pointed to by \f2buf\fP a string
which is the ASCII representation of the number of processors
available for running unrestricted processes.
.P
\f4sysinfo\fP fails if one or both of the following are true:
.TP 14n
\f4EPERM\f1
The process does not have appropriate privilege for a SET command.
.TP
\f4EINVAL\f1
\f2buf\fP does not point to a valid address, or the data for
a SET command exceeds the limits established by the implementation.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion,
the value returned indicates the buffer size in bytes required
to hold the complete value and the terminating null character.
If this value is no greater than the value passed in \f2count\fP,
the entire string was copied;
if this value is greater than \f2count\fP, the string copied into
.I buf
has been truncated to \f2count\-1\fP bytes plus a terminating null character.
.PP
.PD
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "USAGE"
There is in many cases no corresponding programmatic
interface to set these values;
such strings are typically settable only by the system administrator
modifying entries in the
\f4master.d\f1
directory or the code provided by 
the particular OEM reading a serial number or code out of read-only memory,
or hard-coded in the version of the operating system.
.P
A good starting guess for \f2count\fP is 257, which is likely
to cover all strings returned by this interface in typical installations.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4uname\fP(2), 
\f4gethostname\fP(3), \f4gethostid\fP(3),
\f4sysconf\fP(3C)
