'\"!  tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.uadmin @(#)uadmin	41.4 of 5/26/91
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} uadmin 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} uadmin 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} uadmin 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} uadmin "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4uadmin\f1 \- administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/uadmin.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int uadmin(int cmd, int fcn, int mdep);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4uadmin\fP
provides control for basic administrative functions.
This system call is tightly coupled to the system administrative procedures
and is not intended for general use.
The argument
.I mdep
is provided for machine-dependent use and is not defined here.
.PP
As specified by
.IR cmd ,
the following commands are available:
.PP
.TP 15
\f4A_SHUTDOWN\fP
The system is shut down.
All user processes are killed, the buffer cache is flushed, and the root
file system (and no other) is unmounted.
The action to be taken after the system has been shut down is specified by
.IR fcn .
The functions are generic;
the hardware capabilities vary on 
specific machines.
.RS 15
.TP 12
\f4AD_HALT\fP
Halt the system.
.TP
\f4AD_BOOT\fP
Reboot the system.
.TP
\f4AD_IBOOT\fP
Interactive reboot; the system goes to firmware mode and
the user is prompted for bootable program name.
Not supported; it is treated the same as \f4AD_HALT.
.TP
\f4AD_POWEROFF\fP
Halt the processor and turn off the power with \f4A_REBOOT\fP or
\f4A_SHUTDOWN\fP.  With \f4A_SETFLAG\fP, simply sets the flag so that
a subsequent \f4A_SHUTDOWN\fP or \f4A_REBOOT\fP also powers off.
.RE
.TP 15
\f4A_REBOOT\fP
The system stops immediately without any further processing.
The action to be taken next is specified by
.I fcn
as above.
.TP
\f4A_REMOUNT\fP
The root file system is mounted again after having been fixed.
This should be used only during the startup process.
.TP
\f4A_KILLALL\fP
All processes are killed except those
belonging to the process group specified by
.IR fcn .
They are sent the signal specified by
.IR mdep .
.TP
\f4A_SETFLAG\fP
Set a flag to control later actions.  Currently implemented
only for \f4AD_POWEROFF\fP.
.PP
\f4uadmin\fP
fails if any of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EPERM\fP
The calling process does not have super-user privilege.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends on
.I cmd
as follows:
.PP
.RS
.TS
l l.
\f4A_SHUTDOWN\fP	Never returns.
\f4A_REBOOT\fP	Never returns.
\f4A_REMOUNT\fP	0
\f4A_KILLALL\fP	0
.TE
.RE
.PP
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
syssgi(2), uadmin(1).
