'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.uname @(#)uname	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} uname 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} uname 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} uname 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} uname "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4uname\f1 \- get name of current UNIX system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/utsname.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int uname(struct utsname \(**name);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4uname\f1
stores information identifying the current
.SM UNIX
system in the structure pointed to by
\f2name\f1.
.PP
\f4uname\f1
uses the structure \f4utsname\fP
defined in \f4<sys/utsname.h>\f1 whose members are:
.PP
.RS
.ft 4
char	sysname[SYS_NMLN];
.br
char	nodename[SYS_NMLN];
.br
char	release[SYS_NMLN];
.br
char	version[SYS_NMLN];
.br
char	machine[SYS_NMLN];
.ft 1
.RE
.PP
\f4uname\f1
returns
a null-terminated character string naming the current
.SM IRIX
system in the character array
\f2sysname\f1.
Similarly,
\f2nodename\f1
contains the name that the system is known by on a communications
network.
\f2release\f1
and
\f2version\f1
further identify the operating system release and version.
\f2release\f1 has one of the following forms:
.I m.n
or
.I m.n.a
where
.I m
is the major release number,
.I n
is the minor release number and
.I a
is the (optional) maintenance level of the release;
e.g.
.BR 3.2
or
.BR 3.2.1\^\^ \f1.
\f2version\f1 contains the date and time that the operating system was generated.
It has the form:
.IR mmddhhmm .
.PP
\f2machine\f1
contains the type of CPU board that the
.SM IRIX
system is running on, e.g.
.BR IP6 .
.TP 15
\f4EFAULT\f1
\f4uname\f1
fails if
\f2name\f1
points to an invalid address.
.SH FILES
Message catalog:  \f4uxcore.abi\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4uname\f1(1),
\f4gethostname\f1(2)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a non-negative value is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
