'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.ustat @(#)ustat	41.6 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ustat 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ustat 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ustat 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ustat "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4ustat\f1 \- get file system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/types.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <ustat.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int ustat(dev_t dev, struct ustat \(**buf); \f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4ustat\f1
returns information about a mounted file system.
\f2dev\f1
is a device number identifying a device containing
a mounted file system [see \f4makedev\f1(3C)].
\f2buf\f1
is a pointer to a
\f4ustat\f1
structure that includes the following elements:
.PP
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
.ta 10n 25n 30n
daddr_t	f_tfree;	/\(** Total free blocks \(**/
ino_t	f_tinode;	/\(** Number of free inodes \(**/
char	f_fname[6];	/\(** Filsys name \(**/
char	f_fpack[6];	/\(** Filsys pack name \(**/
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.P
.PP
\f4ustat\f1
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\f1
\f2dev\f1
is not the device number of a device containing a mounted file system.
.TP
\f4EFAULT\f1
\f2buf\f1
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
\f4EINTR\f1
A signal was caught during a \f4ustat\f1 system call.
.TP
\f4ENOLINK\f1
\f2dev\f1 is on a remote machine and the link 
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
\f4ECOMM\f1
\f2dev\f1 is on a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4stat\f1(2), \f4statvfs\f1(2), \f4makedev\f1(3C), \f4fs\f1(4).
.SH NOTES
\f4ustat\f1 will be phased out in favor of the \f4statvfs\f1 function.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)ustat.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
