'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.waitid @(#)waitid	40.13 of 1/3/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} waitid 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} waitid 2 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} waitid 2 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} waitid "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4waitid\f1 \- wait for child process to change state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <sys/types.h>\f1\f4 \f1
\f4#include <wait.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f4int waitid(idtype_t idtype, id_t id, siginfo_t *infop, \c
int options);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4waitid\f1
suspends the calling process until
one of its children changes state.
It records the current state of a child in the
structure pointed to by \f2infop\f1.
If a child process changed state prior to the call to
\f4waitid\f1,
\f4waitid\f1
returns immediately.
.PP
The
.I idtype
and
.I id
arguments specify which children
\f4waitid\f1
is to wait for.
.IP
If
\f2idtype\f1
is \f4P_PID\f1,
\f4waitid\f1
waits for the child with a process
ID
equal to
\f4(pid_t) \f1\f2id\f1.
.IP
If
\f2idtype\f1
is \f4P_PGID\fP,
\f4waitid\f1
waits for any child with a process group
ID
equal to
\f4(pid_t)\f1\f2id\f1.
.IP
If
\f2idtype\f1
is \f4P_ALL\fP,
\f4waitid\f1
waits for any children and
\f2id\f1
is ignored.
.PP
The
\f2options\f1
argument is used to specify which state changes
\f2waitid\f1
is to wait for.
It is formed by an
OR
of any of the following flags:
.TP 15
\f4WEXITED\fP
Wait for process(es) to exit.
.TP
\f4WTRAPPED\fP
Wait for traced process(es) to become trapped or reach a breakpoint
(see \f4ptrace\f1(2)).
.TP
\f4WSTOPPED\fP
Wait for and return the process status of any child that has
stopped upon receipt of a signal.
.TP
\f4WCONTINUED\fP
Return the status for any child that was stopped and has been continued.
.TP
\f4WNOHANG\fP
Return immediately.
.TP
\f4WNOWAIT\fP
Keep the process in a waitable state.
.PP
\f2infop\f1
must point to a
\f4siginfo_t\f1
structure, as defined in
\f4siginfo\f1(5).
\f4siginfo_t\f1
is filled in by the system with the status of the process being
waited for.
.PP
\f4waitid\f1 fails if one or more of the following is true.
.TP 15
\f4EFAULT\f1
\f2infop\f1
points to an invalid address.
.TP
\f4EINTR\f1
\f4waitid\f1
was interrupted due to the receipt of a signal by the calling process.
.TP
\f4EINVAL\f1
An invalid value was specified for
\f2options\f1.
.TP
\f4EINVAL\f1
\f2idtype\f1
and
\f2id\f1
specify an invalid set of processes.
.TP
\f4ECHILD\f1
The set of processes specified by
\f2idtype\f1
and
\f2id\f1
does not contain any unwaited-for processes.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \f4waitid\f1
returns due to a change of state of one of its children, a value of 0
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\f1
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
exec(2),
exit(2),
fork(2),
intro(2),
pause(2),
ptrace(2),
sigaction(2),
signal(2),
wait(2),
siginfo(5)
