'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3s.gets @(#)gets	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} GETS 3S "C Programming Language Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} GETS 3S "C Programming Language Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} GETS 3S "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} GETS "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
gets, fgets \- get a string from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B char \(**gets (char \(**s);
.PP
.B "char \(**fgets (char \(**s, int n, \s-1FILE\s+1 \(**stream);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gets\^
reads characters
from the standard input stream,
.IR stdin,
into the array pointed to by
.IR s ,
until a new-line character is read
or an end-of-file condition is encountered.
The new-line character is discarded
and the string is terminated with a
null character.
.PP
.I fgets\^
reads 
characters from the
.I stream\^
into the array pointed to by
.IR s ,
until
.IR n \-1
characters are read, or
a new-line character is read and transferred to
.IR s ,
or an end-of-file condition is encountered.
The string is then terminated with a
null character.
.SH SEE ALSO
lseek(2),
read(2),
ferror(3S),
fopen(3S),
fread(3S),
getc(3S),
scanf(3S),
stdio(3S),
ungetc(3S).
.SH NOTES
When using \f2gets\fP, if the length of an input line exceeds the
size of s, indeterminate behavior may result.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If end-of-file is encountered
and no characters have
been read, no characters are transferred to
.I s\^
and a 
.SM NULL
pointer is returned.
If a read error occurs, such as trying to use these functions
on a file that has not been opened for reading, a
.SM NULL
pointer is returned.
Otherwise
.I s\^
is returned.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
.\"	@(#)gets.3s	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
