'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3s.getws @(#)getws	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} getws 3S "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} getws 3S ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} getws 3S "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} getws "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} getws 3S "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4getws, fgetws\fP \- get a \f4wchar_t\fP string from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 4
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <widec.h>
.sp .5
wchar_t \(**getws(wchar_t \(**\f2s\fP\^);
.sp .5
wchar_t \(**fgetws(wchar_t \(**\f2s\fP\^, int \f2n\fP\^, FILE \(**\f2stream\fP\^);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION (International Functions)
\f4getws\fP reads \s-1EUC\s+1 characters from \f4stdin\fP,
converts them to \f4wchar_t\fP
characters, and places them in
the \f4wchar_t\fP array pointed to by \f2s\fP.
\f4getws\fP reads until a newline character is read or an end-of-file
condition is encountered.  The newline character is discarded
and the \f4wchar_t\fP string is terminated with a \f4wchar_t\fP null
character.
.P
\f4fgetws\fP
reads \s-1EUC\s+1 characters from the stream,
converts them to \f4wchar_t\fP characters,
and places them in the \f4wchar_t\fP array pointed
to by \f2s\fP.
\f4fgetws\fP
reads until \f2n\-\f41\f1 \f4wchar_t\fP characters are
transferred to \f2s\fP, or a newline character or an end-of-file
condition is encountered.
The \f4wchar_t\fP string is then terminated with a \f4wchar_t\fP null
character.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4ferror\fP(3S),
\f4fopen\fP(3S),
\f4fread\fP(3S),
\f4scanf\fP(3S),
\f4stdio\fP(3S),
\f4getwc\fP(3S),
\f4widec\fP(3S).
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If end-of-file or a read error is encountered and no characters
have been transformed,
no \f4wchar_t\fP characters are transferred to \f2s\fP
and a null pointer is returned and the error indicator for the stream is set.
If the read error is an illegal byte sequence,
\f4errno\fP is set to \f4EILSEQ\fP.
If end-of-file is encountered, the \f4EOF\fP indicator for the stream is set.
Otherwise, \f2s\fP is returned.
