'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3s.ungetc @(#)ungetc	30.3 of 1/19/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} UNGETC 3S "C Programming Language Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} UNGETC 3S "C Programming Language Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} UNGETC 3S "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} UNGETC "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
ungetc \- push character back into input stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B int ungetc (int c, \s-1FILE\s+1 \(**stream);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ungetc\^
inserts the character
.I c\^
into the buffer associated with an input
.IR stream .
Pushed-back characters will be returned by subsequent reads
on that stream in the reverse order of their pushing.
A successful intervening call (with the stream pointed to by \f2stream\f1)
to a file positioning function (\f2fseek\f1(3S), \f2fsetpos\fP(3S) or \f2rewind\f1(3S)),
discards any pushed-back characters.
The external storage corresponding to the stream is unchanged.
A successful call to
.I ungetc
clears the end-of-file indicator for the stream.
.PP
One character of pushback is guaranteed,
provided something has already been read from the stream and the stream is
actually buffered.
.PP
If
.I c\^
equals
.SM
.BR EOF ,
the operation fails and the input stream is unchanged.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fseek(3S), fsetpos(3S), getc(3S), rewind(3S), setbuf(3S), stdio(3S).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I ungetc\^
returns the character pushed back, or
.SM
.B EOF
if it cannot insert the character.
.SH BUGS
When 
.I stream\^
is
.IR stdin ,
one character may be pushed back onto the buffer without a previous read
statement.
.PP
An
.I ungetc\^
on an unbuffered stream (including 
.IR stderr )
may succeed, with the following consequences.  If the stream is open for input,
the pushed-back character will be prepended to the input.  If the stream
is open only for output, 
the next character written to the output stream may be lost.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
.\"	@(#)ungetc.3s	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
