'\"!  tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3s.widec @(#)widec	41.5 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} widec 3S "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} widec 3S ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} widec 3S "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} widec "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} widec 3S "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4widec\fP  \- multibyte character \s-1I/O\s+1 routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 4
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <widec.h>
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION (International Functions)
The functions that the multibyte character library provides for
\f4wchar_t\fP string operations correspond to those provided by
\f4stdio\fP(3S) as shown in the table below:
.IP
.na
.TS
tab(:);
c l l l
lfI lf(CW) lf(CW) lf(CW).
_
\&:T{
character-based function
T}:T{
byte-based function
T}:T{
character- and byte-based
T}
=
character I/O:getwc:getc:\&
\&:getwchar:getchar:\&
\&:fgetwc:fgetc:\&
\&:ungetwc:ungetc:\&
\&:putwc:putc:\&
\&:putwchar:putchar:\&
\&:fputwc:fputc:\&
_
string I/O:getws:gets:\&
\&:fgetws:fgets:\&
\&:putws:puts:\&
\&:fputws:fputs:\&
_
formatted I/O:\&:\&:printf
\&:\&:\&:fprintf
\&:\&:\&:sprintf
\&:\&:\&:vprintf
\&:\&:\&:vfprintf
\&:\&:\&:vsprintf
\&:\&:\&:scanf
\&:\&:\&:fscanf
\&:\&:\&:sscanf
_
.TE
.ad
.sp
.P
The character-based input and output routines provide the ability
to work in units of characters instead of bytes.
C programs using these routines can treat all characters from any of the
four \s-1EUC\s+1 code sets as the same size by using the \f4wchar_t\fP
representation.
.PP
\f4getwc\fP returns a value of type \f4wchar_t\fP, which corresponds to
the \s-1EUC\s+1 representation of a character read from the input stream.
\f4getwc\fP uses the \f4cswidth\fP parameter in the \f2character class table\fP to 
determine the width of the character in its \s-1EUC\s+1 form.
.PP
\f4putwc\fP transforms a \f4wchar_t\fP character into
\s-1EUC\s+1, and writes it to the named output stream.
\f4putwc\fP also uses the \f4cswidth\fP parameter to
determine the widths of characters in \s-1EUC\s+1.
.PP
The macros \f4getwchar\fP and \f4putwchar\fP;
the functions
\f4fgetwc\fP, \f4fputwc\fP, \f4getws\fP, \f4fgetws\fP,
\f4putws\fP,
and \f4fputws\fP;
and the format specifications \f4%wc\fP and \f4%ws\fP of
the functions
\f4printf\fP, \f4fprintf\fP, \f4sprintf\fP,
\f4vprintf\fP, \f4vfprintf\fP, \f4vsprintf\fP,
\f4scanf\fP, \f4fscanf\fP, and \f4sscanf\fP
act as if they had made successive calls to either \f4getwc\fP
or \f4putwc\fP.
.P
The character-based routines use the existing byte-based routines
internally, so the buffering scheme is the same.
.P
Any program that uses these routines must include the following header files:
.nf
.ft 4

      #include <stdio.h>
      #include <widec.h>

.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4open\fP(2),
\f4close\fP(2),
\f4lseek\fP(2),
\f4pipe\fP(2),
\f4read\fP(2),
\f4write\fP(2),
\f4ctermid\fP(3S),
\f4cuserid\fP(3S),
\f4fclose\fP(3S),
\f4ferror\fP(3S),
\f4fopen\fP(3S),
\f4fread\fP(3S),
\f4fseek\fP(3S),
\f4popen\fP(3S),
\f4printf\fP(3S),
\f4scanf\fP(3S),
\f4setbuf\fP(3S),
\f4stdio\fP(3S),
\f4system\fP(3S),
\f4tmpfile\fP(3S),
\f4tmpnam\fP(3S),
\f4getwc\fP(3S),
\f4getws\fP(3S),
\f4putwc\fP(3S),
\f4putws\fP(3S),
\f4ungetwc\fP(3S),
\f4wcstring\fP(3S).
.ad
