'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.ABIinfo @(#)ABIinfo	1.1 of 06/01/96
.TH ABIinfo 1
.SH NAME
ABIinfo \- query information about MIPS ABI systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
\f4ABIinfo\f1 \f2Selector-string\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ABIinfo\^
provides a shell-level interface to determine whether a particular MIPS ABI 
feature is supported by the operating system.
ABIinfo also provides the version of the 
.I MIPS Processor ABI Conformance Guide
to which the operating system conforms.
.PP
This interface allows a feature which will appear in a future 
.I Conformance Guide
to be supported by the host operating system prior to that system becoming 
conformant with that 
.I Conformance Guide .
It also allows applications to determine whether features which are 
documented in the 
.I Conformance Guide ,
but are not mandatory features, are implemented on a particular host 
operating system.
.PP
The \f4ABIinfo\f1 utility takes a \f2selector string\f1, which is an ASCII 
form of the \f2#define\f1 found in \f4<ABIinfo.h>\f1, as an argument 
indicating a query for a software or hardware feature.
If the feature is supported, an ASCII 
representation of the version identifier is printed on the standard output.
The version identifiers and their meanings are listed in the \f4ABIinfo\f1
selector table.
.PP
Refer to the manual entry for \f4ABIinfo\fP(3C) for information
about the meaning of the individual parameters.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4ABIinfo\fP exits with a status of \f40\f1 if the feature represented by 
the selector is supported, \f41\f1 if the feature is not supported, and 
\f42\f1 if the selector is invalid.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following command prints the 
.I Conformance Guide
version supported by the current environment:
.sp
.in+0.5i
.B ABIinfo ABIinfo_BlackBook
.in-0.5i
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4ABIinfo\fP(3C), \f4<ABIinfo.h>\fP
