.\" Copyright 1992, 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.TH acctcom 1
.SH NAME
\f4acctcom\f1 \- search and print process accounting file(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4acctcom [\f2options\fP] [\f2file\fP . . . ]
\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4acctcom\fP
reads
\f2file\f1,
the standard input, or
\f4/var/adm/pacct\f1
in the form described by
\f4acct\fP(4)
and writes selected records to the standard output.
Each record represents the execution of one process.
The output shows the
\f4COMMAND NAME\f1,
\f4USER\f1,
\f4TTYNAME\f1,
\f4START TIME\f1,
\f4END TIME\f1,
\f4REAL (SEC)\f1,
\f4CPU (SEC)\f1,
\f4MEAN SIZE (K)\f1
(see \f4-m\f1 option below),
and, optionally,
\f4F\f1
(the
\f4fork\fP/\f4exec\fP
flag:
\f41\fP for \f4fork\fP without \f4exec\fP),
\f4STAT\f1
(the system exit status),
\f4HOG FACTOR\f1,
\f4KCORE MIN\f1
(see \f4-k\f1 option below),
\f4CPU FACTOR\f1,
\f4CHARS TRNSFD\f1, 
and
\f4BLOCKS READ\f1
(total blocks read and written).
.PP
A \f4#\f1 is prefixed to the command name
if the command was executed by a privileged user.
If a process is not associated with a known terminal,
a \f4?\fP is printed in the
\f4TTYNAME\f1
field.
.PP
If no \f2files\fP are specified, and
if the standard input is associated with a terminal
or
\f4/dev/null\f1
(as is the case when using
\f4&\f1
in the shell),
\f4/var/adm/pacct\f1
is read; otherwise, the standard input is read.
.PP
If any
\f2file\f1
arguments are given,
they are read in their respective order.
Each file is normally read forward, that is, in chronological order
by process completion time.
The file
\f4/var/adm/pacct\f1
is usually the current file to be examined;
a busy system may need several such files
of which all but the current file are found in
\f4/var/adm/pacct \f2incr\fP\f1.
.PP
The \f2options\fP are
.RS 0
.TP 12
\f4-a\f1
Show some average statistics about the processes selected.
The statistics will be printed after the output records.
.TP
\f4-b\f1
Read backward, showing latest commands first.
This option has no effect when the standard input is read.
.TP
\f4-f\f1
Print the
\f4fork\fP/\f4exec\fP
flag and system exit status columns in the output.
The numeric output for this option will be in octal.
.TP
\f4-h\f1
Instead of mean memory size,
show the fraction of total available
CPU
time consumed by the process
during its execution.
This ``hog factor'' is computed as (total CPU\ time)/(elapsed\ time).
.TP
\f4-i\f1
Print columns containing the I/O counts in the output.
.TP
\f4-k\f1
Instead of memory size, show total kcore-minutes, which is the
average resident set size of the process (in KB) if its execution time is
normalized to one minute.
This is computed by keeping a cumulative sum of the process's
resident set size (the process's current resident set size is
added to the sum \f4HZ\f1 times a second).
This sum is converted to KB and then divided by 60*\f4HZ\f1 to
yield kcore-minutes.
.TP
\f4-m\f1
Show mean core size (the default).
This is average resident set size of the process (in KB)
during its execution.
It is computed by taking the cumulative resident set size
(as computed for the \f4-k\f1 option)
and dividing it by the sum of the system and user CPU times.
.TP
\f4-r\f1
Show
CPU
factor (user-time/(system-time + user-time)).
.TP
\f4-t\f1
Show separate system and user
CPU
times.
.TP
\f4-v\f1
Exclude column headings from the output.
.TP
\f4-l \f2line\fP\f1
Show only processes belonging to terminal
\f4/dev/\fP\f2line\fP.
.TP
\f4-u \f2user\fP\f1
Show only processes belonging to
\f2user\f1
that may be specified by a user ID,
a login name
that is then converted to a user ID,
a \f4#\fP that designates only those processes executed
by a privileged user,
or a \f4?\fP
that designates only those processes associated with unknown
user IDs.
The \f4#\fP and the \f4?\fP should be typed as \f4\\#\fP and \f4\\?\fP,
respectively, to prevent the shell
from interpreting the \f4#\fP as the start of a comment
or the \f4?\fP as a pattern.
.TP
\f4-g \f2group\fP\f1
Show only processes belonging to the
\f2group\fP.
The \f2group\fP may be designated by either the
group ID or the group name.
.TP
\f4-s \f2time\fP\f1
Select processes existing at or after
\f2time\f1,
given in the format
\f2hr\f1[:\f2min\f1[:\f2sec\f1]].
.TP
\f4-e \f2time\fP\f1
Select processes existing at or before
\f2time\f1.
.TP
\f4-S \f2time\fP\f1
Select processes starting at or after
\f2time\f1.
.TP
\f4-E \f2time\fP\f1
Select processes ending at or before
\f2time\f1.
Using the same
\f2time\f1
for both
\f4-S\f1
and
\f4-E\f1
shows the processes that existed at
\f2time\f1.
.TP
\f4-n \f2pattern\fP\f1
Show only commands matching
\f2pattern\f1
that may be a regular expression, as in
\f4regcmp\fP(3G), except + means one or more occurrences.
.TP
\f4-q\f1
Do not print any output records, just print the average statistics, as with
the
\f4-a\f1
option.
.TP
\f4-o \f2ofile\fP\f1
Copy selected process records in the input data format to
\f2ofile\f1;
suppress printing to standard output.
.TP
\f4-H \f2factor\fP\f1
Show only processes that exceed
\f2factor\fP,
where factor is the ``hog factor'' as explained in option
\f4-h\f1
above.
.TP
\f4-O \f2sec\fP\f1
Show only processes with
CPU
system time exceeding
\f2sec\f1
seconds.
.TP
\f4-C \f2sec\fP\f1
Show only processes with total
CPU
time (system-time + user-time) exceeding
\f2sec\f1
seconds.
.TP
\f4-I \f2chars\fP\f1
Show only processes transferring more characters than
the cutoff number given by
\f2chars\f1.
.RE
.SH FILES
\f4/etc/passwd\fP
.br
\f4/var/adm/pacct\fP\f2incr\fP
.br
\f4/etc/group\fP
.SH "REFERENCES"
acct(1M),
acctcms(1M),
acctcon(1M),
acctmerg(1M),
acctprc(1M),
acctsh(1M),
fwtmp(1M),
ps(1),
runacct(1M),
su(1M),
acct(2),
regcmp(3G),
acct(4),
utmp(4).
.SH "NOTICES"
\f4acctcom\fP
reports only on processes that have terminated; use
\f4ps\fP(1)
for active processes.
.PP
If
\f2time\f1
exceeds the present time,
then
\f2time\f1
is interpreted as occurring on the previous day.
