.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} admin 1 "Source Code Control System Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
admin \- create and administer SCCS files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3admin\f1 [\f3\-n\f1] [\f3\-i\f1[name]] [\f3\-r \f1rel] \c
[\f3\-t\f1[name]] [\f3\-f \f1flag[flag-val]] \c
[\f3\-d \f1flag[flag-val]] [\f3\-a \f1login] [\f3\-e \f1login] \c
[\f3\-m mrlist] [\f3\-y\f1[comment]] [\f3\-h\f1] [\f3\-z\f1] files
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I admin
is used to create new SCCS files
and change parameters of existing ones.
Arguments to
.I admin\c
,
which may appear in any order,
consist of keyletter arguments,
which begin with \f3\-\f1,
and named files
(note that SCCS filenames must begin with the characters
\f3s.\f1).
If a named file does not exist,
it is created
and its parameters are initialized according to
the specified keyletter arguments.
Parameters not initialized by a keyletter argument
are assigned a default value.
If a named file does exist,
parameters corresponding to specified keyletter arguments
are changed
and other parameters are left as is.
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I admin
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-SCCS files
(last component of the pathname does not begin with \f3s.\f1)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \f3\-\f1 is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an SCCS file
to be processed.
Again, non-SCCS files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
The keyletter arguments are as follows.
Each is explained as though only one named file is to be processed
because the effects of the arguments
apply independently to
each named file.
.RS 5
.TP 15
.B \-n
This keyletter indicates that a new SCCS file is to be created.
.TP 15
.BI \-i [name]
The \f2name\f1 of a file from which the text for a
new SCCS file is to be taken.
The text constitutes the first delta of the file
(see
.B \-r
keyletter for delta numbering scheme).
If the
.B i
keyletter is used
but the filename is omitted,
the text is obtained by reading the standard input
until an end of Rused,file is encountered.
If this keyletter is omitted,
then the SCCS file is created empty.
Only one SCCS file may be created
by an
.I admin
command on which the
.B i
keyletter is supplied.
Using a single
.I admin
to create two or more SCCS files requires that they be created
empty
(no
.B \-i
keyletter).
Note that the
.B \-i
keyletter implies the
.B \-n
keyletter.
.TP 15
.BI \-r rel
The
.I rel\c
ease into which the initial delta is inserted.
If the
.B \-r
keyletter is not used,
the initial delta is inserted into release 1.
The level of the initial delta is always 1
(by default initial deltas are named 1.1).
.TP 15
.BI \-t [name]
The
\f2name\f1 of a file from which descriptive text for the SCCS file
is to be taken.
If the
.B \-t
keyletter is used
and
.I admin
is creating a new SCCS file
(the
.B \-n
and/or
.B \-i
keyletters also used), the descriptive text filename
must also
be supplied.
In the case of existing SCCS filesSflag\fP
(1) a
.B \-t
keyletter without a filename causes removal of descriptive text
(if any) currently in the SCCS file, and (2) a
.B \-t
keyletter with a filename causes text (if any) in the
named file to replace
the descriptive text (if any) currently in the SCCS file.
.TP 15
.BI \-f flag
This keyletter specifies a \f2flag\f1 and, possibly, a 
value for the \f2flag\f1 to
be placed in the SCCS file.
Several
.B f
keyletters may be supplied on a single
.I admin
command line.
The allowable \f2flag\f1s and their values are
.RE
.RS 10
.TP 10
.B b
Allows
use of
the
.B \-b
keyletter on a
.IR get (1)
command to create branch deltas.
.TP 10
.BI c ceil
The
highest release
(i.e., ``ceiling''),
a number greater than 0 but less than or equal to 9999, that can be
retrieved by a
.IR get (1)
command for editing.
The default value for an unspecified
.B c
flag is 9999.
.TP 10
.BI f floor
The
lowest release
(i.e., ``floor''),
a number greater than 0 but less than 9999,
that can be retrieved by a
.IR get (1)
command for editing.
The default value for an unspecified
.B f
flag is 1.
.TP 10
.BI d SID
The
default delta number
(SIDs+1) used by a
.IR get (1)
command.
.TP 10
.BI i [str]
Causes
the "No id keywords (ge6)" message issued by
.IR get (1)
or
.IR delta (1)
to be treated as a fatal error.
In the absence of this flag, the message is only a warning.
The message is issued if no
SCCS identification keywords
(see
.IR get (1))
are found
in the text retrieved or stored in the SCCS file.
If a value is supplied, the keywords must 
match the given string exactly; however, the string must contain a keyword
and no embedded newlines.
.TP 10
.B j
Allows
concurrent
.IR get (1)
commands for editing
on the same SIDs+1 of an SCCS file.
This allows multiple concurrent updates to the same
version of the SCCS file.
.TP 10
.BI l list
A
\f2list\f1 of releases to which deltas can no longer be made
.RB ( "get \-e"
against one of these ``locked'' releases fails).
The \f2list\f1 has the following syntax:
.TP 10
<list>
::= <range> \(or <list> , <range>
.br
<range>~::=	\f2RELEASE NUMBER\f1 \(or \f3a\f1
.IP
The character \f3a\f1 in the \f2list\f1 is equivalent to specifying
.I "all releases"
for the named SCCS file.
.TP 10
.B n
Causes
.IR delta (1)
to create a null delta
in each of those releases (if any) being skipped when a delta is made
in a
.I new
release (e.g., in making delta 5.1 after delta 2.7, releases 3 and 4
are skipped).
These null deltas serve as anchor points that branch deltas
may later be created from.
The absence of this flag causes skipped releases to be
nonexistent in the SCCS file,
preventing branch deltas from being created from them in the future.
.TP 10
.BI q text
User
definable text substituted for all occurrences
of the %\&Q% keyword in the SCCS file text retrieved by
.IR get (1).
.TP 10
.BI m mod
\f2Mod\f1ule
name of the SCCS file
substituted for all occurrences of the %\&M% keyword in the SCCS file
text retrieved by
.IR get (1).
If the
.B m
flag is not specified, the value
assigned is the name of the SCCS file with the leading
\f3s.\f1 removed.
.TP 10
.BI t type
\f2Type\f1
of module in the SCCS file substituted for all occurrences of
%\&Y% keyword in the SCCS file text retrieved by
.IR get (1).
.TP 10
.BI v pgm
Causes
.IR delta (1)
to prompt for Modification Request (MR) numbers as the
reason for creating a delta.
The optional value specifies the name of an MR number validity
checking program
(see
.IR delta (1)).
(If this flag is set when creating an
SCCS
file, the
.B m
keyletter must also be used even if its value is null.)
.RE
.RS 5
.TP 15
.BI \-d flag
Causes
removal (deletion) of the specified \f2flag\f1 from an SCCS file.
The
.B \-d
keyletter
may be specified only when processing existing
SCCS files.
Several
.B \-d
keyletters may be supplied on a single
.I admin
command.
See the
.B \-f
keyletter for allowable \f2flag\f1 names.
.RE
.RS 10
.TP 10
.BI l list
A
\f2list\f1 of releases to be ``unlocked.''
See the
.B \-f
keyletter for a description of the
.B l
flag and the syntax of a \f2list\f1.
.RE
.RS 5
.TP 15
.BI \-a login
A
\f2login\f1 name, or numeric UNIX system group ID,
to be added to the list of users that
 make deltas (changes) to the SCCS file.
A group ID is equivalent to specifying all
\f2login\f1 names common to that group ID.
Several
.B a
keyletters may be used
on a single
.I admin
command line.
As many \f2login\f1s, or numeric group ID's
as desired may be on the list simultaneously.
If the list of users is empty,
then anyone may add deltas.
If a \f2login\f1 or group ID is preceded by
a
.B !
they are do not have permission to make deltas.
.TP
.BI \-e login
A
\f2login\f1 name, or numeric group ID,
to be erased from the list of users
allowed to make deltas (changes) to the SCCS file.
Specifying a group ID is equivalent to specifying all
\f2login\f1 names common to that group ID.
Several
.B e
keyletters may be used on a single
.I admin
command line.
.TP 15
.BI \-m [mrlist]
The
list of Modification Requests (MR)
numbers is inserted into the SCCS file
as the reason for creating the initial delta in a manner
identical to
.IR delta (1).
The
.B v
flag must be set and the MR numbers validated if the
.B v
flag has a value (the name of an MR number validation program).
Diagnostics will occur if the
.B v
flag is not set or if MR validation fails.
.TP 15
.BI \-y [comment]
The
.I comment
text is inserted
into the SCCS file as a comment
for the initial delta in a manner identical to that
of
.IR delta (1).
Omissing the \f3\-y\f1 keyletter results in a default
comment line being inserted in the form
.sp .8v
date and time created
.IR YY / MM / DD
.IR HH : MM : SS
by
.I login
.sp .8v
The
.B \-y
keyletter
is valid only if the
.B \-i
and/or
.B \-n
keyletters are
specified (that is, a new SCCS file is being created).
.TP 15
.B \-h
Causes
.I admin
to check the structure of the SCCS file
(see
.I sccsfile\c
(5)) and to compare a newly
computed check-sum (the sum of all the characters in the SCCS file
except those in the first line) with the check-sum that is stored
in the first line of the SCCS file.
Appropriate error diagnostics are produced.
.TP 15
.B \& 
This keyletter inhibits writing on the file, 
nullifying the effect of any other keyletters supplied, and
is, therefore, only meaningful when processing existing files.
.TP 15
.B \-z
The
SCCS file check-sum is recomputed and stored in the first line
of the SCCS file
(see
.BR \-h ,
above).
.IP
Note
that using this keyletter on a truly corrupted file
may prevent future detection of the corruption.
.in 0
.PP
The last component of
all SCCS filenames must be of the form \f3s.\fP\f2filename\fP.
New SCCS files are given mode 444
(see
.IR chmod (1)).
Write permission
in the pertinent directory is,
of course,
required to create a file.
All writing done by
.I admin
is to a temporary x-file,
called \f3x.\fP\f2filename\fP
(see
.IR get (1)),
created with mode 444 if the
.I admin
command is creating a new SCCS file or with the same mode
as the SCCS file if it exists.
After the successful execution of
.I admin\c
,
the SCCS file is removed (if it exists) and the x-file
is renamed with the name of the SCCS file.
This ensures that changes are made to the SCCS file only
if no errors occurred.
.PP
It is recommended that directories containing SCCS files be mode
755
and that SCCS files themselves be mode 444.
The mode of the directories allows
only the owner to modify
SCCS files contained in the directories.
The mode of the SCCS files prevents any modification
at all except by SCCS commands.
.PP
If it should be necessary to patch an SCCS file for any reason,
the mode may be changed to 644 by the owner
allowing the use of
.IR ed (1).
.I "Care must be taken!"
The edited file should
.I always
be processed by an
.I admin
.B \-h
to check for corruption, followed by an
.I admin
.B \-z
to generate a proper check-sum.
Another
.I admin
.B \-h
is recommended to ensure the SCCS file is valid.
.PP
.I admin
also makes use of
a transient lock file
(called \f3z.\fP\f2filename\fP),
to prevent simultaneous updates to the SCCS file by different users.
See
.IR get (1)
for further information.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w`/usr/bin/bdiff\ \ \ `u"
g-file
Existed
before the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
p-file
Existed
before the execution of
.IR delta ;
may exist after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
q-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
x-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
renamed to SCCS file after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
z-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed during the execution of
.IR delta .
.TP
d-file
Created during the execution of
.IR delta ;
removed after completion of
.IR delta .
.TP
/usr/bin/bdiff
Program to compute differences
between the ``gotten'' file and the
.IR g-file .
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
delta(1),
ed(1),
get(1),
help(1),
prs(1),
what(1),
sccsfile(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)admin.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
