'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.alias @(#)alias	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} alias 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} alias 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} alias 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} alias "" "" "\&"
.ds OK [\|
.ds CK \|]
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3alias\f1 - define or display aliases 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3alias\f1 [\f3alias_name\f1[\f3=string\f1] ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3alias\f1 utility creates or redefines alias definitions or writes the
values of existing alias definitions to standard output. An alias
definition provides a string value that replaces a command name when it
is encountered.

An alias definition affects the current shell execution environment and
the execution environments of the subshells of the current shell. When
used as specified by this specification, the alias definition will not
affect the parent process of the current shell nor any utility
environment invoked by the shell.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.TP 20
\f4alias_name\fP
Write the alias definition to standard output.
.TP 20
\f4alias_name=string\fP
Assign the value of string to the alias \f3alias_name.\f1
.PP
If no operands are given, all alias definitions will be written to
standard output.
.SH STDOUT
The format for displaying aliases (when no operands or only name
operands are specified) is:
.IP
"%s=%s\\n", name, value
.PP
The value string will be written with appropriate quoting so that it is
suitable for reinput to the shell.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 5
\f40\fP
Successful completion.
.TP 5
\f3>0\fP
One of the name operands specified did not have an alias definition,
or an error occurred.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.TP
1.
Change \f3ls\f1 to give a columnated, more annotated output:
.IP
alias ls="ls -CF"
.TP
2.
Create a simple "redo" command to repeat previous entries in the
command history file:
.IP
alias r='fc -s'
.TP
3.
Use 1K units for \f3du\f1:
.IP
alias du=du\ -k
.TP
4.
Set up \f3nohup\f1 so that it can deal with an argument that is itself an
alias name:
.IP
alias nohup="nohup "
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3sh(1)\f1
