.TH ansitape 1
.SH NAME
ansitape \- \&ANSI standard tape handler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3ansitape\f1 [key] [keyargs] [files]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ansitape
reads and writes magnetic tapes written in
ANSI standard format
(called ``Files-11'' by DEC).
Tapes written by
.I ansitape
are labeled with the first six characters of the machine name by default.
Actions are controlled by the
.I key
argument.
The
.I key
is a string of characters containing at
most one function letter.
Other arguments to the command are
a tape label and filenames specifying which files are
to be written onto or extracted from the tape.
.PP
Note that this version is designed to work with text files that is, those
with no more than 2044 bytes without a newline character.
Binary files
are unlikely to be handled correctly on either creation or extraction.
.PP
The function portion of the key is
specified by one of the following letters:
.TP 8
.B r
The named files are written at the end of the tape.
The
.B c
function implies this.
.TP 8
.B x
The named files are extracted from the tape.
If no file argument is given,
the entire contents of the tape are extracted.
Note that if the tape has duplicated filenames,
only the last file of a given name can
be extracted.
.TP 8
.B t
The names of the specified files are listed
each time they occur on the tape.
If no file argument is given,
all files on the tape are listed.
.TP 8
.B c
Create a new tape; writing begins at the
beginning of the tape instead of after
the last file.
This command implies
.B r.
.PP
The following characters may be used in
addition to the letter that selects
the function desired.
.TP 8
.B f
This argument allows the selection of a different tape
device.
The next word in the 
.I keyargs 
list is taken to be
the full name of a local device on which to write the tape.
The default is 
.IR /dev/tape .
.TP 8
.B n
The
.B n
option allows the user to specify, as the next argument in the 
.I keyargs 
list,
a control file
containing the names of files to put on the tape.
If the filename is '\-', the control file will instead be read
from standard input.
The control file contains one line for each file
placed on the tape.
Each line has two names, the name of the file on
the local machine and its name when
placed on the tape.
This allows for a convenient
flattening of hierarchies when placing them on tape.
If the second name is omitted, the UNIX filename will also be
used on the tape.
This argument can only be used with the
.B r
and
.B c
functions.
.TP 8
.B l
The
.B l
option allows the user to specify the label to be placed on the tape.
The next argument in the 
.I keyargs 
list is taken as the tape label, which
will be space padded or truncated to six characters.
This option is meaningless unless
.B c
is also specified.
.TP 8
.B v
Normally
.I ansitape
works relatively silently.
The
.B v
(verbose) option causes it to type
information about each file as it processes it.
.TP 8
.B b
The
.B b
option allows the user to select the block size to be used for the
tape.
By default,
.I ansitape
uses the maximum block size permitted by the ANSI standard, 2048.
Some systems will permit a much larger block size, and if large
files are being put on the tape, it may be advantageous to do so.
.I ansitape
takes the next argument of the 
.I keyargs 
list as the block size for the tape.
Values below 18 or above 32k will be limited to that range.
The standard scale factors b=512 and k=1024 are accepted.
.TP 8
.B F
The
.B F
flag allows
.I ansitape
to write ANSI 'D' format-fixed record-length tapes.
The next two keyargs must be the recordsize and blocksize,
with the same scale factors and range limits as the
.B b
option.
The files to be written by the
.B F
flag must be in fixed format on the UNIX end\(emall lines should be
.I exactly
.B record-size
bytes long plus a terminating newline (which will be discarded).
Note that this is exactly the same format produced by
.I ansitape
when reading an ANSI 'D' format tape.
.PP
.I ansitape
will not copy directories, character or block special files,
symbolic links, sockets, or binary executables.
Attempts to put these on tape will result in warnings, and they will
be skipped completely.
.SH FILES
/dev/tape	default tape drive
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A warning message will be generated when a record exceeds the maximum record
length, and the affected file will be truncated.
.br
.SH BUGS
.I ansitape 
quietly truncates names longer than 17 characters.
.PP
Multivolume tapes can be read (provided no files cross the
volume boundary) but not written.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vmsprep(1),
mtio(7).
