.TH Backup 1
.SH NAME
Backup \- backup the specified file or directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3Backup\f1 [ \f3\-h\f1 \f2hostname\f1 ] [ \f3\-i\f1 ] \c
[ \f3\-t\f1 \f2tapedevice\f1 ]
	[ \f2directory_name\f1 | \f2file_name\f1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Backup
command archives the named file or directory (the current directory if none
is specified) to
the local or remote tape device.
It can be used to make a full system
backup by specifying the directory name as \f3/\f1.
.PP
In case of a full backup, this command makes a list of the files
in the disk volume header and saves this information in a file which
is then stored on tape.
This file is used during crash recovery to
restore a damaged volume header.
Information about mounted filesystems and logical volumes is also
copied to the backup.
The current date is saved in the file \f2/etc/lastbackup\f1.
.PP
Full system backups can be used with the system recovery mechanism
from the PROM maintenance mode (the miniroot is booted with mode 3
in the normal way, but recovery is started, instead of installation).
See your \f3Owner's Manual\fP for more information on this procedure.
.PP
The options and arguments to
.I Backup
are:
.TP 16
.BI \-h " hostname"
If a tape drive attached to a remote host is used for backup, specify the name
of the remote host with the
.BI \-h " hostname"
option.
For remote backup to successfully work, you
should have a TCP/IP network connection to the remote host and
\f3guest\f1 login privileges on that host.
.TP
.B \-i
If a backup of all files modified since the date specified in the
.I /etc/lastbackup
file is desired, specify the
.B \-i
option.
This option is valid only when doing a complete
backup.
.TP
.BI \-t " tapedevice"
If the local or remote tape device is pointed to by a device file other
than \f2/dev/tape\fP,
specify the device with the \f3\-t\f1 \f2tapedevice\f1 option.
.TP
.I directory_name
Create a backup of the directory
.IR directory_name .
For this case, when files are restored, they will be restored in the
root directory, with the leading
.I directory_name
stripped off.
.TP
.I file_name
Create a backup of the file
.IR file_name .
.PP
The
.I Backup
command uses
.IR cpio (1)
to perform the backup function.
Older versions used
.IR bru (1),
or
.IR tar (1).
The
.IR Restore (1)
command will handle any of the 3 types of backups.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/tmp/volhdrlist
contains the list of the root volume header files
.TP
/etc/lastbackup
contains the date of last full backup for incremental
backups; the modification time of this file is used
.PD
.SH NOTE
.I Backup
constructs a list of file names with \f3find\f1
to pipe to cpio.  Filenames with embedded white space will
work this way, with the exception of filenames with embedded newlines,
since each filename in the list is terminated by a newline.  This
may sometimes produce confusing error messages.
.P
The exit status is 0 on success (including the case where no files
are backed up, but no errors with the tape drive or command occur).
.SH SEE ALSO
List_tape(1),
Restore(1),
cpio(1).
