'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.bg @(#)bg	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} bg 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} bg 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} bg 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} bg "" "" "\&"
.ds OK [\|
.ds CK \|]
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3bg\fP - run jobs in the background
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3bg\f1 [\f3job_id\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If job control is enabled (see the description of \f3set -m\f1 in the \f3sh(1)\f1
manpage), the \f3bg\f1
utility resumes suspended jobs from the current environment 
by running them as background jobs. If the job
specified by \f3job_id\f1 is already a running background job, the \f3bg\f1 utility
has no effect and will exit successfully.
.PP
Using \f3bg\f1 to place a job into the background causes its process ID to
become "known in the current shell execution environment", as if it had
been started as an asynchronous list.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.TP 10
\f3job_id\f1
Specify the job to be resumed as a background job. If no \f3job_id\f1
operand is given, the most recently suspended job is used. The format
of \f3job_id\f1 is described in the entry for job control job ID in the
\f3(sh)\f1 manpage.
.SH STDOUT
The output of \f3bg\f1 consists of a line in the format:
.IP
"[%d] %s\\n", <job-number>, <command> 
.PP
where the fields are as follows:
.TP 18
<job-number>
A number that can be used to identify the job to the \f3wait\f1, 
\f3fg\f1 and \f3kill\f1
utilities. Using these utilities, the job can be identified by
prefixing the job number with "%".
.TP 18
<command>
The associated command that was given to the shell.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 4
0
Successful completion.
.TP 4
>0
An error occurred.
.SH CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
If job control is disabled, the \f3bg\f1 utility will exit with an error and
no job will be placed in the background.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
A job is generally suspended by typing the SUSP character (<control>Z).
At that point, \f3bg\f1 can put the job into the background. This is most
effective when the job is expecting no terminal input and its output
has been redirected to non-terminal files. A background job can be
forced to stop when it has terminal output by issuing the command:
.IP
stty tostop
.PP
A background job can be stopped with the command:
.IP
kill -s stop job ID
.PP
The \f3bg\f1 utility will not work as expected when it is operating in its
own utility execution environment because that environment will have no
suspended jobs. In the following examples:
.IP
 \.\.\. | xargs bg
.IP
(bg)
.PP
each \f3bg\f1 operates in a different environment and will not share its
parent shell's understanding of jobs. For this reason, \f3bg\f1 is generally
implemented as a shell regular built-in.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3
fg(1), 
kill(1), 
jobs(1), 
sh(1), 
wait(1).
\f1
