'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .ds lq ""
.if n .ds rq ""
.if t .ds lq ``
.if t .ds rq ''
.if n .ds BU o
.if t .ds BU \(bu
.TH bru 1
.SH NAME
bru \- backup and restore utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3bru\f1 \f3modes\f1 [ \f3control options\f1 ] [ \c
\f3selection options\f1 ] files
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bru
is a
.B UNIX
filesystem backup utility with significant enhancements
over other more common utilities such as
.IR tar ,
.IR cpio ,
.IR volcopy ,
and
.IR dd .
Some of
.IR bru 's
capabilities include:
.sp .8v
.RS 5
.PD 0
.TP 3
\*(BU
Full or incremental backup with quick and easy restoration
of files.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Multiple physical volumes per archive.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Data integrity assurance via checksum computation on every
archive block.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Ability to properly save and restore directories,
symbolic links,
block special files, and character special files.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Comparison of archives with current directory hierarchy.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Ability to recover files from corrupted archives or damaged media
with minimal data loss.
.TP 3
\*(BU
No inherent maximum archive buffer size.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Improved performance through random access archive I/O when
available.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Automatic byte or half word swapping as necessary when reading
archives produced on other machines.
.TP 3
\*(BU
Recognition of filename generation patterns in the same
form as the shell for files read from an archive.
.RE
.PD 1
.PP
When
.I files
are specified on the command line then the actions to be
performed are limited to those
.IR files .
If a named file is a directory then it and all its descendents
are used.
If no
.I files
are specified then the default for writing archives is all files
in and below the current directory.
The default for reading archives is selection of all files in
the archive.
.PP
If ``\-'' is given instead of
.I files
then the standard input is read to obtain the file list.
This is useful in conjunction with the
.I find
command to provide finer control over files selected for
backup.
Obviously this mode is only valid when
.I bru
is not also reading its archive from the standard input.
.PP
If you are doing backups non-interactively (for example, via
.IR cron ,
be sure to read the description of the
.B -B
option below.
.SH DEFAULTS
Various default parameters, such as archive device name
and size, archive buffer size, controlling terminal name,
etc.
are system dependent.
These defaults, along with version, variant, and other
miscellaneous internal  information may be discovered
via the
.B \-h
mode.
.br
.sp .8v
.I bru
assumes the default tape device to be
.B \/dev/tape
if no tape device is specified using the
.B \-f
option.
For this to work correctly,
.B \/dev/tape
should be linked to the actual tape device, for ex.
.B \/dev/mt/tps0d6.
Also there should be an appropriate entry for
.B \/dev/mt/tps0d6
in the
.B \/etc/brutab
file.
.SH MODES
One or more of the following modes must be specified.
The order of execution, from highest priority to lowest, is
.BR ecitxdgh .
.TP 10
.B \-c
.B Create
a new archive.
Forces a new archive to be created regardless of whether one
currently exists.
Writing starts at the first block.
.TP
.B \-d
.B Differences
between archived
.I files
and current
.I files
are detected and reported.
May be specified more than once, as
.B \-dd
.B \-ddd
or
.B \-dddd
to control level of difference checking.
.br
.sp .8v
When specified as
.B \-d
.I bru
reports when it discovers that a regular file's size (st_size) or contents
(when compared as byte streams) has changed since the archive
was made.
.br
.sp .8v
When specified as
.B \-dd
.I bru
reports additional differences in
modification date (st_mtime)
access mode (st_mode),
number of links (st_nlink) for non-directory files,
differences in the contents of symbolic links,
owner id (st_uid),
and
group id (st_gid).
.br
.sp .8v
When specified as
.B \-ddd
.I bru
reports additional differences in
host device (st_dev),
major/minor device (st_rdev) for special files,
and
time of last access (st_atime) for regular files.
.br
.sp .8v
When specified as
.B \-dddd
.I bru
reports all differences except
time of last status change (st_ctime is not resettable),
major/minor device numbers for non-special files (meaningless),
and
size differences for directory files (may have empty entries).
The
.B \-dddd
mode is generally only meaningful during a verification
pass with full backups of
quiescent filesystems.
.TP
.B \-e
.B Estimate
media requirements for archive creation with same arguments.
Prints estimated number of volumes, number of files to be
archived, total number of archive blocks, and total size
of archive in kilobytes.
If the media size is unknown, unspecified, or set to 0 via the
.B \-s
flag or the
.I brutab
file, it is assumed to be infinite.
The
.B \-Z
flag may also be given.
If used, every file that would be backed
up will be compressed to a temporary file, which may slow down
the estimation considerably.
When
.BR \-Z , \-c " and " \-e
are all used, each file will be compressed twice, once during
the estimation pass, and once while writing to the archive.
.TP
.B \-g
Dump archive info block in a form more easily parsed by programs
implementing a complete filesystem management package.
Performs no other archive actions.
Note: when used with
.BR -t ,
and the
rewind tape device, this information is printed after the file list.
This option will not work when used with
.B -t
if the norewind tape device is used, since
.I bru
expects to be positioned at the beginning of the tape archive after
the tape device is closed.
When a number of
.I bru
archives are written to the same tape, a sequence like that below
will work correctly (where # is the position of a particular archive
set), listing first the label information, and then the files in
the same archive.
.Ex
	mt fsf #
	bru -vgf /dev/nrtape
	mt bsf 1
	bru -vtf /dev/nrtape
.Ee
.TP
.B \-h
Print
.B help
summary of options.
Also prints some internal information such as version number
and default values for archive pathname, media size,
archive buffer size, etc.
.TP
.B \-i
.B Inspect
archive for internal consistency and data integrity.
When
.B \-vv
option is also given, prints information from archive
header block.
.TP
.B \-t
List
.B table
of contents of archive.
When used with the
.B \-v
option will give a verbose table of contents in the same format as
the ``ls \-l'' command.
When used with the
.B \-vv
option will also indicate what files are linked to other files,
and where symbolic links point to.
.TP
.B \-x
.B Extract
named
.I files
from archive.
If an archived file is extracted (see
.B \-u
option) then the
access mode,
device id (special files only),
owner uid,
group uid,
access time,
and
modification time
are also restored.
If the
.B \-C
flag is given (see below),
then the owner uid and group uid will be changed to that of the current user.
.br
.sp .8v
Nonexistent directories are recreated from archived directories
if possible, otherwise they are created with appropriate defaults
for the current user.
Extracted or created directories are initially empty.
.SH CONTROL OPTIONS
Many of the control options are similar in function to their
.I tar
or
.I cpio
equivalents.
.PP
Sizes are specified in bytes.
The scale factors
.BR M ,
.BR k ,
or
.BR b ,
can be used to indicate
multiplication by 2**20, 1024, or 512 respectively.
Thus
``10k'',
``20b'',
and
``10240'' all specify the same number of
bytes.
.TP
.B \-a
Do not update the
.B access
times of disk files that have
been read while performing other actions.
Normally
.I bru
restores the access and modification times of disk files
after they have been read to the access and modification times to whatever
they were before the read operation.
Restoring the times prevents defeat of the mechanism used to track
down and remove
``dead'' files that haven't been accessed in any meaningful way recently.
Note that this has the side effect that backup programs such as
.IR dump (1m)
will backup the file, since the
.I ctime
of the file will have been modified; use of
.B \-a
is therefore recommended
when using
.I dump
as your system backup utility.
Use of
.B \-a
will also slightly speed up backups, since the inode will not be written.
.TP
.BI "\-b " bsize
Use
.I bsize
as the archive input/output
.B buffer
size.
The minimum is the size of an archive block (2k or 2048 bytes)
and the maximum is determined by available
memory and I/O device limitations.
If
.I bsize
is not an even multiple of 2048 bytes, it will be rounded up.
Normally this option is only required with the
.B \-c
mode
since
.I bru
writes this information in the archive header block.
If specified,
.I bsize
overrides any existing default value (generally 20k), whether built in or
read from the archive header.
.TP
.B \-B
Useful in shell scripts where
.I bru
is run in the
.B background
with no operator present or not possible, such as when there
is no controlling terminal, causing an open of
.B /dev/tty
to fail.
Under these conditions,
.I bru
simply terminates with appropriate error messages and status,
rather than attempting interaction with the terminal.
With this option,
.I bru
will exit, rather than try to open the controlling terminal.
In this
case, the entire backup must fit on a single tape or other media, as
there is no way to ask for a media change.
.TP
.B \-C
Change the owner
.RB ( chown )
and group of each extracted file to the owner uid and group gid
of the current user.
Normally,
.I bru
will restore the owner and group to those recorded in the archive.
This flag causes bru to follow the system default,
with extracted files having the same owner and group as
the user running
.IR bru ,
including Root.
.br
.sp .8v
The
.B \-C
option is useful with archives imported from other systems.
In general, it should not be used by the operator or system
administrator when restoring saved files.
Use the
.B \-tv
option to see the owner and group of files stored in the archive.
.TP
.B \-D
This option is not implemented, but is still accepted for
backward compatibility with scripts that may use it.
.TP
.BI "\-f " path
Use
.I path
as the archive
.B file
instead of the default.
If the
.I path
is ``\-'' then
.I bru
uses the standard input for archive reading or standard output
for archive writing, as appropriate.
If the path is remote then it needs
to be specified as
.I \[user@\]system:/dev/???
.br
The \<user@\> part of the path is optional, and if none is specified
then the user's login is used.
The login has to be equivalently mapped
to the remote machine if it has a password.
.TP
.B \-F
.B Fast
mode.
In fast mode, checksum computations and comparisons are disabled.
This mode is useful when the output of one
.I bru
is piped to the input of another
.IR bru ,
or when the data integrity of the archive transmission medium is
essentially perfect.
Archives recorded with fast mode enabled must also be read with
fast mode.
Also, be aware that some of the automatic features of
.IR bru ,
such as automatic byte swapping,
are not functional in fast mode.
.TP
.B \-j
Convert
.B absolute
pathnames to "."  relative pathnames.
This option applies only to the
.B \-x
mode.
.TP
.B \-X
Echo relative pathnames as absolute pathnames.
This option only valid when used in conjunction with the \-x,
\-j and \-v options.
.TP
.BI "\-L " str
.B Label
the archive with the specified string
.IR str .
.I Str
is limited to 63 characters and is usually some
meaningful reminder pertaining to the archive contents.
.TP
.B \-l
Ignore unresolved
.BR links .
Normally bru reports problems with unresolved links
(both regular and symbolic links).
This option suppresses all such complaints.
.TP
.B \-m
Do not cross
.B mounted
filesystem boundaries during expansion
of explicitly named directories.
This option applies only to directories named in
.IR files .
It limits selection of directory descendents to those
located on the same filesystem as the explicitly named directory.
This option currently applies only to the
.B \-c
and
.B \-e
modes.
.TP
.B \-p
.B Pass
over files in archive by reading rather than seeking.
Normally
.I bru
will use random access capabilities if available.
This option forces reading instead of seeks.
.TP
.B \-R
.B Remote
files are to be
.B excluded
from the archive (unless explicitly listed on the command line; remote
directories on the command line are backed up as a directory, but files,
subdirectories, etc.
therein will not be backed up).  Filesystems such as the
.IR proc (4)
filesystem are considered to not be local, based on the
information returned by the
.IR statvfs (2)
system call.
.TP
.BI "\-s " msize
Use
.I msize
as the media
.BR size .
The effective media
.B size
will be computed from
.I msize
since it must be integral multiple of the input/output buffer
size (see the
.B \-b
option).
Normally this option is only required with the
.B \-c
or
.B \-e
flags since
.I bru
writes this information in the archive header block.
If specified,
.I msize
overrides any existing default value, whether built
in, read from the
.I brutab
file, or read from the archive header.
If set to 0, the tape
is assumed to be infinite in length, and the archive is written
until an error occurs, at which time a new volume is prompted for.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable
.B verbose
mode.
May be specified more than once, as
.BR \-vv ,
.BR \-vvv ,
or
.BR \-vvvv ,
to get even more verbosity.
.TP
.B \-w
.B Wait
for confirmation.
.I Bru
will print the filename, the action to be taken, and
.B wait
for
confirmation.
Any response beginning with 'y' will cause the action to complete.
Any other response will abort the action.
.TP
.B \-Z
Use 12-bit LZW file compression.
This is not the default because not all versions of
.I bru
know how to deal with compressed files.
When the
.B \-v
option is also selected, the compression ratio for each file is
printed as a percentage.
When this flag is used in conjunction with the
.B \-t
option on an archive that contains compressed file, the actual archive
file sizes and names are printed,
rather than the original values before archiving.
Files are compressed into a temporary file in a directory given
by the BRUTMPDIR environment variable.
If not given, /usr/tmp
is used.
.TP
.B \-K
Required to archive files larger than 2 Gigabytes.
\f4Bru\f1 will issue
a warning and skip such files if the \f4-K\f1 flag is not specified.
Must be used in conjunction with the \f4-Z\f1 flag.
If \f4Bru\f1 can
compress the file to a size smaller than 2 Gigabytes, the file will be
archived.
Otherwise, a warning will be issued and the file will be skipped.
.SH FILE SELECTION OPTIONS
The file selection options control which files are selected for processing.
Note that some options are only valid with specific modes.
.TP 10
.BI "\-n" date
Select only files
.B newer
than
.IR date ,
where this is based on the file modification time (see \f4st_mtime\fP in
\f4stat\fP(2)); the inode modification time is not checked.
The
.I date
is given in one of the forms:
.sp .8v
.TS
l l.
DD\-MMM\-YY[YY][,HH:MM:SS]	EX:\ 12\-Mar\-84,12:45:00
MM/DD/YY[YY][,HH:MM:SS]	EX:\ 3/12/84
MMDDHHMM[YY[YY]]	EX: 0312124584
pathname	EX: /etc/lastfullbackup
.TE
.IP "" 10
The time of day is optional in the first two forms.
If present, it is separated from the date with a comma.
If YY is less than 39, it is assumed to be in the range 2000-2039.
Otherwise, if less than 100, it is assumed to be in the range 1940-1999.
The resulting year must be in the range 1970-2038.
.IP "" 10
If
.I date
is really the pathname of a file,
then the modification date of that file will be used instead.
This is useful in automated backups when a dummy file is
``touched'' to save the date of last backup.
.TP
.BI "\-o " user
Select only files
.B owned
by
.IR user .
.I User
may be specified in one of three ways:
.sp .8v
.RS 15
.PD 0
.TP 3
\*(BU
As an ascii string corresponding to a user name
in the password file.
.TP 3
\*(BU
As the pathname of a file in which case the owner
of that file is used.
.TP 3
\*(BU
As a numeric value (decimal).
.RE
.PD 1
.TP
.BI "\-u " flags
When used in conjunction with
.B \-x
mode, causes files of type specified by
.I flags
to be
.B unconditionally
selected regardless of modification times.
Normally
.I bru
will not overwrite (supersede) an existing file with an older archive
file of the same name.
Files which are not superseded will give warnings if
.B verbose
mode level 2
.RB ( \-vv )
or higher is enabled.
Possible characters for
.I flags
are:
.sp .8v
.RS 15
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B b
select block special files
.TP 5
.B c
select character special files
.TP 5
.B d
select directories
.TP 5
.B l
select symbolic links
.TP 5
.B p
select fifos (named pipes)
.TP 5
.B r
select regular files
.RE
.PD 1
.IP "" 10
Selection of directories only implies that their attributes
may be modified.
Existing directories are never overwritten,
this option merely
allows their attributes to be set back to some
previously existing state.
.IP "" 10
Selection of symbolic links only implies that the contents of the link
will be modified.
It is currently impossible
to change access time, modification time, or the file mode of a symbolic
link.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create
.RB ( \-c )
a new archive of all files under ``/usr/src'',
writing archive to file
.RB ( \-f )
``/dev/rmt0''
using multiple tapes with a maximum size
.RB ( \-s )
of 30 megabytes per tape.
.PP
.RS
bru \-c \-f /dev/rmt0 \-s 30M /usr/src
.RE
.PP
Create
.RB ( \-c )
a new archive on the default device in the
first pass, archiving all files in and below the current directory
which have been created or modified
.RB ( \-n )
since 3 P.M.
on 14\-Jan\-84.
Then do a second pass to verify that there are no differences
.RB ( \-d )
between the archive and current files.
Each file is listed
.RB ( \-v )
as it is processed.
.PP
.RS
bru \-cvd \-n 14\-Jan\-84,15:00:00
.RE
.PP
Archive all files owned
.RB ( \-o )
by user ``user1''
using the default archive device.
.PP
.RS
find / \-user user1 \-print \(bv bru \-c \-
.br
bru \-c \-o user1 /
.RE
.PP
Copy a directory hierarchy from ``/usr/u1'' to
``/usr/u2''.
.PP
.RS
(cd /usr/u1; bru \-cf \- ) \(bv (cd /usr/u2; bru \-xf \-)
.RE
.PP
Extract
.RB ( \-x )
the regular file ``/usr/guest/myfile'' unconditionally
.RB ( \-ur )
from an archive on file
.RB ( \-f )
``/dev/rf0''.
Since the device size was recorded in the header block,
it need not be specified.
Note that option arguments do not need to be
separated from their corresponding option flag by whitespace.
.PP
.RS
bru \-x \-ur \-f/dev/rf0 ./usr/guest/myfile
.RE
.PP
Extract
.RB ( \-x )
all C source files in ``/usr/src/cmd'' that have names
beginning with characters 'a' through 'm'.
Wait
.RB ( \-w )
for confirmation before extracting each file.
.PP
.RS
bru \-xw \(fm/usr/src/cmd/[a\-m]*.c\(fm
.RE
.PP
Inspect
.RB ( \-i )
a previously created archive on the
default device, dumping the contents of the header block for
inspection
.RB ( \-vvv )
and verifying internal consistency and data integrity
of the archive.
.PP
.RS
bru \-ivvv
.RE
.PP
Back up the entire root filesystem without
crossing mounted
.RB ( \-m )
filesystem boundaries.
The archive will be written to file
.RB ( \-f )
``/dev/rmt0'' using an I/O
buffer size
.RB ( \-b )
of 10k bytes.
.PP
.RS
cd /
.br
bru \-cvm \-f /dev/rmt0 \-b 10k
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Most diagnostics are reasonably informative.
The most common have to do with meaningless combinations of options,
incompatible options,
hitting memory or device limits,
unresolved file links,
trying to archive or restore something to which access is normally denied,
or problems with media errors and/or archive corruption.
.SH DEVICE TABLE
.I Bru
contains an internal table of known devices and their characteristics.
This table is dynamically loaded from a data file specified by
the environment variable
.BR BRUTAB ,
or from
.IR /etc/brutab ,
or from an internal default description if neither of the preceding is found.
.PP
The format of the \f2bru\fP data file for loadable devices is as follows.
Note that the table MUST contain at least one entry and the
first entry is the default archive device.
.PP
Also, the table should contain an entry for the standard
input and output, with a name of "-".
.PP
Entries consist of a device name field, followed by one
or more capabilities fields.
Entries may span more than
one line by escaping the newline at the end of the line with
a '\\' character ('\\' is last character on line before newline).
All whitespace (tabs, blanks, newlines, formfeeds) between fields
is ignored.
.PP
The device name field must be the first field in the entry and has
the following form:
.PP
.RS
.nf
<device name>|<device name>| ... |<device name>
.sp .8v
example:  /dev/rmt[0-2]|/dev/mt[0-2]
.fi
.RE
.PP
where each device has the same capabilities as the other devices
specified (a class of devices).
Regular expressions as described
in
.IR regexp (3)
may be used.
.PP
Each capability field is of the form:
.PP
.RS
.nf
<capability name>=<value>  or  <boolean flag>
.sp .8v
example:  size=640K   REOPEN  pwerr=EIO
.fi
.RE
.PP
Note that there can be no whitespace between the capability name
and the value.
Note that a size of 0 is treated specially, see the
.B \-s
flag description above.
Numeric values may be given in absolute form or
with a trailing scale factor of:
.PP
.RS
.nf
b or B	Blocks (512 bytes)
k or K	Kilobytes (1024 bytes)
m or M	Megabytes (1024 * 1024 bytes)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Error numbers may be given in absolute or symbolic form,
as defined in <errno.h>.
.PP
Currently used capabilities include:
.TS
l l l.
Name	Type	Meaning
_
size	numeric	media size in bytes if known, zero otherwise
seek	numeric	minimum seek resolution, zero if no seeks allowed
prerr	numeric	errno for partial reads
pwerr	numeric	errno for partial writes
zrerr	numeric	errno for zero reads
zwerr	numeric	errno for zero writes
frerr	numeric	errno for read of unformatted media
fwerr	numeric	errno for write of unformatted media
wperr	numeric	errno for write protected media
reopen	boolean	close and reopen archive upon media switch
noreopen	boolean	no close and reopen archive upon media switch
tape	boolean	archive device is a tape drive
rawtape	boolean	archive device is a "raw" tape drive
		used primarily with devices that support
		multiple block sizes
norewind	boolean	closing does not automatically rewind
advance	boolean	read/writes advance media even when errors occur\fP
.TE
.PP
For instance, an excerpt from
.I /etc/brutab
for SCSI tapedrives is:
.PP
.nf
\s-2
\fC
/dev/r*mt/tps[0-9]d[1-7]nr* \\
	size=0K seek=0 \\
	prerr=EIO pwerr=EIO zrerr=ENOSPC zwerr=ENOSPC frerr=0 fwerr=0 \\
	wperr=EROFS norewind reopen tape rawtape advance
#
/dev/r*mt/tps[0-9]d[1-7]* \\
	size=0K seek=0 \\
	prerr=EIO pwerr=EIO zrerr=ENOSPC zwerr=ENOSPC frerr=0 fwerr=0 \\
	wperr=EROFS reopen tape rawtape advance
#	This entry is a generic entry for stdin and stdout.
- size=0 seek=0 prerr=0 pwerr=0 zrerr=0 zwerr=0 frerr=0 fwerr=0 wperr=0
\fP
The internal table that is used if no file can be found is:
.fi
.nf
\s-2
\fC
/dev/tape* \\
	size=0k seek=0 \\
	prerr=EIO pwerr=EIO zrerr=ENOSPC zwerr=ENOSPC frerr=0 fwerr=0 \\
	wperr=EROFS reopen tape rawtape advance
/dev/nrtape* \\
	size=0k seek=0 \\
	prerr=EIO pwerr=EIO zrerr=ENOSPC zwerr=ENOSPC frerr=0 fwerr=0 \\
	wperr=EROFS norewind reopen tape rawtape advance
\fP
.fi
.SH SIGNAL HANDLING
.I Bru
normally catches both interrupt (SIGINT) and quit (SIGQUIT).
When interrupt is caught during archive creation or extraction,
.I bru
completes its work on the current file before cleaning up and exiting.
This is the normal way of aborting
.IR bru .
When a quit signal is caught an immediate exit is taken.
.PP
Note that during file extraction, a quit signal may leave the last file only
partially extracted.
Similarly, a quit signal during archive writing may leave the archive
truncated.
When either interrupt or quit is caught at any other time
an immediate exit is taken.
.SH ERROR RECOVERY
When properly configured for a given software/hardware environment,
bru can recover from most common errors.
For example, attempts to use unformatted media are detected, allowing
substitution of formatted media.
Random blocks in an archive can be deliberately overwritten (corrupted)
without affecting
.IR bru 's
ability to recover data from the rest of the archive.
When I/O errors are detected, retries are performed automatically.
Out of order sequencing on multi-volume archive reads is detected,
allowing replacement with the correct volume.
.SH DIRECTORIES
When creating non-incremental archives
.I bru
automatically archives all directories necessary to
fully restore any file from the archive.
During extraction, any required directories which do not
already exist are restored from the archive if possible,
otherwise they are created with appropriate defaults for
the current user.
.PP
The net result is that restoration from incremental
archives (which may not contain all necessary directories),
or incremental restoration from full
archives (which may skip directories needed later),
may result in creation of directories with the default
attributes.
.SH WILDCARDS
When
.B reading
archives
.I bru
recognizes filename generation patterns in the same format as
the shell.
This allows greater flexibility in specifying files to be extracted,
compared, or listed.
As a special extension to shell type expansion, the sense of the match
is reversed for patterns that begin with '!'.
.PP
Note that the patterns may have to be quoted to prevent expansion by the
shell.
Also note that patterns are processed independently, without regard for
any other patterns that may or may not be present.
In particular,
"/bin/a*  /bin/b*" is equivalent to "/bin/[ab]*", but
"/bin/!a* /bin/!b*" is equivalent to "/bin/*",
.B not
"/bin/![ab]*".
.SH BYTE/WORD SWAPPING
While reading archives produced on other machines,
.I bru
automatically attempts to perform byte and/or word swapping as
necessary.
.PP
If no device table is specified,
.I bru
automatically uses the no-swap tape device, which provides higher performance
and compatibility with non-byte swapped tapes from other systems.
The IRIS 3000 series does not support non-byte swapped tapes, but the
automatic byte-swapping capabilities of
.I bru
will deal with this problem.
.SH REMOTE TAPE DRIVES
.I Bru
allows the use of remote tape drives for the archive device
(via the
.B \-f
option).
A remote tape drive filename has the form
.RS
.sp .8v
.I [user@]system:/dev/???
.sp .8v
.RE
where
.I system
is the remote system,
the optional
.I user
is the login name to use on the remote system if different
from the current user's login name, and
.B /dev/???
is the tape drive to use (1600 BPI or 800 BPI, raw or blocked,
rewinding or non-rewinding, etc.).
In all cases, the user must have the appropriate permissions
on the remote system.
(See also the
.B CAVEATS
section, below.)
.SH EXIT CODES
.I Bru
always returns meaningful status as follows:
.PP
.RS
0\ \ \ \ Normal exit, no errors or warnings.
.br
1\ \ \ \ Warnings (or interrupted).
.br
2\ \ \ \ Errors (or quit signal).
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
cpio(1),
rmt(1M),
tar(1),
attr(1),
xfsdump(1).
.SH UNIX SYSTEM INCOMPATIBILITIES
.I Bru
recognizes special file types that may be allowed on one type of
.B UNIX
system, but not on another.
For instance, on a 4.2\ BSD system,
.I bru
will extract
fifos as plain files (mode 0666, as modified by the
.IR umask ),
and issue an appropriate error message.
Usually,
.I bru
will issue two messages.
The first message will be the more descriptive of the two.
.PP
Currently, the only different
.B UNIX
systems that
.I bru
fully understands are System V, 4.2\ BSD, and Pyramid's OSx.
.SH CAVEATS
Pathnames are limited to 127 characters in length.
This could become a chronic problem.
.br
.sp .8v
Implementation differences complicate the algorithms for
automatic detection of end of file on devices.
The algorithms can be fooled, hence the
.B \-s
option.
.br
.sp .8v
Special files moved to a machine other than their original host
will generally be useless and possibly even dangerous.
This goes double for symbolic links.
.br
.sp .8v
When extracting files from archives, patterns used to match
directories may result in some unnecessary directories being
extracted.
For example, if the pattern is ``a/*/c'', and the directory
``a/b'' is encountered in the archive, the directory file ``a/b''
will be extracted since it will be needed when (and if)
the file ``a/b/c'' is encountered.
When in doubt, use the
.B \-w
option.
.br
.sp .8v
In order to be able to efficiently archive needed directories,
.I bru
builds an image of the directory tree for
.I files
using dynamically allocated memory.
Since there may be at most 5120 characters passed on the command line,
it is very unlikely that
.I bru
will run out of memory while building the tree from command line arguments.
This is not true of file lists read from the standard input,
particularly on machines with limited address space.
.br
.sp .8v
Information about file linkages is also kept in memory.
Some linkages may be lost if memory is exhausted.
.br
.sp .8v
Since
.I bru
is owned by root
and runs with ``set\ user\ id'' to allow it to create directories
and special files, it makes every attempt to prevent normal users
from archiving or extracting files they would normally not have access to.
There may be loopholes.
Also note that
anyone with physical or electronic access to an archive,
and knowledge of the archive structure,
can recover
any of its contents by writing their own file extraction program.
.br
.sp .8v
Files within directories which have filesystems mounted on them will not
be properly archived until the filesystem is unmounted, since the mounted
filesystem hides them.
This is not generally a problem.
.br
.sp .8v
Explicitly naming both a directory and one of its
descendents will cause the descendent to be archived twice,
unless they are on separate filesystems and the
.B \-m
flag is used.
.br
.sp .8v
Explicitly naming a file more than once is ineffective.
.br
.sp .8v
When reading from the raw magnetic tape file (rmtxxx)
.I bru
automatically attempts to adjust the I/O buffer size to match
that used to record the archive.
Under certain circumstances it may fail and require help via the
.B \-b
option.
.br
.sp .8v
Using remote tape drives can be slow.
.br
.sp .8v
Extended Attributes are not archived or restored.
See
.IR attr (1)
for more information about Extended Attributes and see
.IR xfsdump (1m)
for a method to back them up.
