.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} calendar 1 "User Environment Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4calendar\f1 \- reminder service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4calendar\f1 [ \- ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4calendar\fP
consults the file \f4calendar\fP in the current directory
and prints out lines that contain today's or
tomorrow's date anywhere in the line.
Most reasonable month-day dates such as \f4Aug.
24\f1,
\f4august 24\f1, \f48/24\f1, and so on, are recognized, but not
\f424 August\f1 or \f424/8\f1.
On weekends ``tomorrow'' extends through Monday.
\f4calendar\fP
can be invoked regularly by using the
\f4crontab\fP(1)
or
\f4at\f1(1) commands.
.PP
When
an argument is present,
\f4calendar\fP
does its job for every user
who has a file \f4calendar\fP in his or her login directory
and sends them any positive results by
\f4mail\fP(1).
If a argument is not present,
\f4calendar\fP
will display the current information in the
calendar file or if the calendar file doesn't
exist will display a message that the
calendar file cannot be found.
Normally this is done daily by facilities in the
UNIX
operating system (see
\f4cron\fP(1M)).
.P
If the environment variable
\f4DATEMSK\f1
is set, \f4calendar\fP will use its value as the full pathname 
of a template file containing format strings.
The strings consist of field descriptors and text characters
and are used to provide a richer set of allowable date formats
in different languages by appropriate settings of the environment
variable
\f4LANG\f1
or
\f4LC_TIME\f1
(see \f4environ\f1(5)).
(See \f4date\fP(1) for the allowable list of field descriptors.)
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example shows the possible contents of a template:
.P
.RS
\f4%B %eth of the year %Y\fP
.RE
.P
\f4%B\fP represents the full month name, \f4%e\fP
the day of month and \f4%Y\fP the year (4 digits).
.P
If
\f4DATEMSK\f1
is set to this template,
the following \f4calendar\f1 file would be valid:
.P
.RS
\f4March 7th of the year 1989 < Reminder>\fP
.RE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
\f4/usr/lib/calprog\fP
program used to figure out today's and tomorrow's dates
.TP
\f4/etc/passwd\fP
.TP
\f4/tmp/cal\(**\fP
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
at(1),
cron(1M),
crontab(1),
date(1),
mail(1),
environ(5).
.SH NOTES
Appropriate lines beginning with white space will not be printed.
.br
Your calendar must be public information for you
to get reminder service.
.br
\f4calendar\f1's
extended idea of ``tomorrow'' does not account for
holidays.
.\"	@(#)calendar.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
