.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} cat 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4cat\f1 \- concatenate and print files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4cat\f1 \f1[\f4\-u\f1] \f1[\f4\-s\f1] \f1[\f4\-v\f1 \f1[\f4\-t\f1] \c
\f1[\f4\-e\f1]] \f2file \f1. . .
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4cat\fP
reads each
.I file
in sequence
and writes it on the standard output.
Thus
.PP
.RS
\f4cat file\f1
.RE
.PP
prints the contents of
\f4file\f1
on your terminal, and
.PP
.RS
\f4cat file1 file2 >file3\f1
.RE
.PP
concatenates
\f4file1\f1
and
\f4file2\f1,
and writes the results in
\f4file3\f1.
If no input file is given,
or if the argument
\f4\-\f1
is encountered,
\f4cat\fP
reads from the standard input.
\f4cat\fP processes supplementary code set characters
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable (see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)).
.PP
The following options apply to \f4cat\fP:
.TP
\f4\-u\f1
The output is not buffered.
(The default is buffered output.)
.TP
\f4\-s\f1
\f4cat\fP is silent about non-existent files.
.TP
\f4\-v\f1
Causes non-printing characters
(with the exception of tabs, new-lines,
and form-feeds)
to be printed visibly.
ASCII control characters (octal 000 \- 037) are printed as
\f4^\f2n,\f1
where
.I n
is the corresponding ASCII character in the range octal 100 \- 137
(@, A, B, C, .\ .\ ., X, Y, Z, [, \e, ], ^, and _);
the DEL character (octal 0177) is printed
\f4^?\f1.
Other non-printable characters are printed
as
\f4M-\f2x,\f1
where
.I x
is the ASCII character specified by the low-order seven bits.
All supplementary code set characters are considered to be printable.
.PP
The following options may be used
with the
\f4\-v\f1
option:
.TP
\f4\-t\f1
Causes tabs to be printed as
\f4^I\f1's
and formfeeds to be printed as
\f4^L\f1's.
.TP
\f4\-e\f1
Causes a
\f4$\f1
character to be printed at the end of each line
(prior to the new-line).
.PP
The
\f4\-t\f1
and
\f4\-e\f1
options are ignored if the
\f4\-v\f1
option is not specified.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore.abi\f1
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxsgicore\f1
language-specific message file (See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1 (5)).
.SH SEE ALSO
cp(1),
pg(1),
pr(1).
.SH NOTES
Redirecting the output of
\f4cat\f1
onto one of the files being read will cause the loss of the data originally in the file being read.
For example,
.PP
.RS
\f4cat file1 file2 >file1\f1
.RE
.sp .8v
causes the original data in \f4file1\fP to be lost.
.\"	$Revision: 1.5 $
