.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} cdc 1 "Source Code Control System Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
cdc \- change the delta commentary of an SCCS delta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3cdc \-r\f1SID [\f3\-m\f1[mrlist]] [\f3\-y\f1[comment]] files
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cdc
changes the
.IR "delta commentary" ,
for the SID (\f3S\f1CCS \f3ID\f1entification string) specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter,
of each
named SCCS file.
.PP
.I "Delta commentary"
is defined to be the Modification Request (MR) and comment
information normally specified via the
.IR delta (1)
command
.RB ( \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters).
.PP
If a directory is named,
.I cdc
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-SCCS files
(last component of the pathname does not begin with \f3s.\f1)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of
.B \-
is given, the standard input is read (see \f2WARNINGS\f1)
and
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an SCCS file
to be processed.
.PP
Arguments to
.IR cdc ,
which may appear in any order, consist of
.I keyletter
arguments and filenames.
.PP
All the described
.I keyletter
arguments apply independently to each named file:
.RS 5
.TP 15
.BI \-r SID
Used
to specify the
.IR S CCS
.IR ID entification
(SID)
string
of a delta for
which the delta commentary is to be changed.
.TP
.BI \-m mrlist
If
the SCCS file has the
.B v
flag set
(see
.IR admin (1)]
then a
list of MR numbers to be added and/or deleted in
the delta commentary of
the SID specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter
.I may
be supplied.
A null MR list has no effect.
.IP
.B MR
entries are added to the list of MRs in the same manner as that of
.IR delta (1).
In order to delete an MR, precede the MR number
with the character \f3!\f1 (see \f2EXAMPLES\f1).
If the MR to be deleted is currently in the list of MRs, it is
removed
and changed into a ``comment'' line.
A list of all deleted MRs is placed in the comment section
of the delta commentary and preceded by a comment line stating
that they were deleted.
.IP
If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal, the prompt
.B MRs?
is issued on the standard output before the standard input
is read; if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
The \f3MRs?\f1 prompt always precedes the \f3comments?\f1 prompt
(see
.B \-y
keyletter).
.IP
.B MRs
in a list are separated by blanks and/or tab characters.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the MR list.
.IP
Note that if the
.B v
flag has a value
(see
.IR admin (1)),
it is taken to be the name of a program (or shell procedure) which validates
the correctness of the MR numbers.
If a non-zero exit status is returned from the MR number validation program,
.I cdc
terminates
and the delta commentary remains unchanged.
.TP
.BI \-y [comment]
Arbitrary
text used to replace the \f2comment\f1(s) already existing
for the delta specified by the
.B \-r
keyletter.
The previous comments are kept and preceded by a comment
line stating that they were changed.
A null \f2comment\f1 has no effect.
.IP
If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal, the
prompt \f3comments?\f1 is issued on the standard output before
the standard input is read;
if the standard input is not a terminal, no prompt is issued.
An unescaped new-line character terminates the \f2comment\f1 text.
.RE
.in 0
.PP
Simply stated,
the keyletter arguments are either (1)
if you made the delta, you can change its delta commentary;
or (2)
if you own the file and directory you can modify the delta commentary.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS 5n
cdc \-r1\f3.\fP6 \-m"bl78-12345 !bl77-54321 bl79-00001" \-ytrouble s\f3.\fPfile
.RE
.PP
adds bl78-12345 and bl79-00001 to the MR list, removes bl77-54321
from the MR list, and adds the comment \f3trouble\f1 to delta 1\f3.\f16
of s\f3.\f1file.
.PP
.RS 5n
cdc \-r1\f3.\f16 s\f3.\f1file
.br
MRs? !bl77-54321 bl78-12345 bl79-00001
.br
comments? trouble
.RE
.PP
does the same thing.
.DT
.SH WARNINGS
If SCCS filenames are supplied to the
.I cdc
command via the standard input
(\f3\-\f1 on the command line),
then the
.B \-m
and
.B \-y
keyletters must also be used.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 10
x-file
(see
.IR delta (1))
.TP
z-file
(see
.IR delta (1))
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
admin(1),
delta(1),
get(1),
help(1),
prs(1),
sccsfile(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR help (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)cdc.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
