.TH cdheadphone 1
.SH NAME
cdheadphone \- play audio CDs on a CD-ROM drive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3cdheadphone\f1 [\ \f3\-dev\f1\ device\ ] [\ \f2-toolkitoption\f1\ ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cdheadphone
is a Motif based control panel for playing audio Compact Discs
on a CD-ROM drive.
Output is through the headphone jack
or output jacks \f2of the CD-ROM drive\fP.
To play a CD through the IRIS audio hardware (where available, e.g.
on the IRIS
Indigo) you must
either run
.IR cdplayer (1)
or plug the output jacks of the CD-ROM drive into the line-input jacks
of the audio hardware.
.P
.I cdheadphone
can store the names of discs and tracks, and also
allows track programming and assigning names to these programs.
The location and format of the music catalog is different from that
previously used
by \f2cdheadphone\fP(1) in order to facilitate creation of shared,
distributed music catalogs.
Existing catalogs can be converted to the new format using the command
\f2cddbcvt\fP(1).
.P
When looking for a catalog entry, \f2cdheadphone\fP searches a list of directories.
The default list is the single directory \f2~/.cddb\fP.
An alternate list can be specified by the shell environment variable CDDB_PATH,
whose value is a comma-separated list of directories.
.P
When \f2cdheadphone\fP needs to create a new music catalog entry, it has to
pick a single directory.
The default directory is \f2~/.cddb\fP.
An alternate directory can be specified by the shell environment variable
CDDB_WRITE_DIR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.BI \-dev " device"
Causes cdheadphone to attempt to use
.I device
as the CD-ROM drive for playing discs.
If the
.B \-dev
option is not used, cdheadphone consults the
hardware inventory table to find a CD-ROM
drive.
.SH USER INTERFACE
\f2cdheadphone\fP's main window has three areas: a display area in the
upper left hand corner, control buttons on the right, and display and
programming buttons in the lower left hand corner.
.SS Display Area
The display area contains four rows of information.
The top row is a
label that contains the title of the current CD, or the string "No
disc" if the CD-ROM drive is empty.
The next row is a label
containing the artist of the current CD.
.PP
The third row has three fields.
The first field contains the number
of the current track, the second contains the time (see below), and
the third contains the name of the current track.
.PP
The last row is the status row and also contains three fields.
The
first field displays a triangle bitmap when a CD is playing, a pair of
lines when a CD is paused, and otherwise is blank.
The second field
contains the string "Repeat" if repeat mode is on (see below), and is
otherwise blank.
The last field contains the string "Shuffle" if
\f2cdheadphone\fP is in shuffle mode, "Program" if a program is being
played, and is blank otherwise.
.SS Control buttons
.TP 15
Play/Pause
Starts playing the current CD if it is stopped or paused, or pauses it
if it playing.
.TP 15
Stop
Stops playing the CD.
.TP 15
Track
These buttons skip backward and forward through the tracks on a CD.
The skip backward button skips to the beginning of the current track,
or to the beginning of the previous track if the current track is
already at the beginning.
.TP 15
Search
These buttons rewind and fast forward through the tracks on a CD.
The
CD does not play fast, but the time in the display area updates to
reflect the change in position on the CD.
.TP 15
Quit
Exit \f2cdheadphone\fP.
.TP 15
Eject
Eject the current CD from the CD-ROM drive.
.SS Display and Programming Buttons
.TP 15
Program...
Brings up a dialog for creating or selecting CD programs.
Programs specify
the order in which the tracks on a CD are to be played.
If no
programs have been entered previously, the "Program" dialog (see
below) appears.
Otherwise, the "Select" dialog (see below) appears.
If a program is created or selected, \f2cdheadphone\fP will be in program
mode, and the string "Program" will appear in the display area.
.TP 15
Shuffle
Causes the tracks on the CD to be shuffled; that is, they will be
played in a random order.
"Shuffle" will be displayed in the display
area.
.TP 15
Clear
Resets \f2cdheadphone\fP if it is in program or shuffle mode.
The tracks
will now be played in the order that they are found on the CD.
.TP 15
Time
Determines what kind of time is displayed in the time field.
By default, the time field displays the elapsed time of the current
track.
If the Time button is pressed once, the time field displays the
remaining time of the current track.
If the Time button is pressed
again, the time field displays the elapsed time of the CD, and if it
is pressed a fourth time the time field displays the remaining time of
the CD.
If pressed one more time, the time field will once again
display the elapsed time of the current track.
.TP 15
Repeat
Puts \f2cdheadphone\fP in repeat mode.
When the current CD is done
playing, play begins again.
In program mode, the program is played
over again.
In shuffle mode, the shuffled tracks are played again in
the same order.
.TP 15
File...
Brings up the "File" dialog (see below) that can be used to enter the
title and artist of the current CD, and the names of the tracks on it.
This information is saved (see \f3DESCRIPTION\fP above), so that the
next time you use this CD \f2cdheadphone\fP can recall the information
you entered.
.SS The Program dialog
This dialog appears when you press the "Program..." button when no
progams have previously been entered, and when you press the "New" or
"Modify" buttons on the "Select" dialog (see below).
.PP
Enter a name for the program in the "Program Name" text field.
Then
select the tracks you want on the program from the "Tracks on Disc"
list, and add them to the "Tracks in Program" list using the left
arrow button.
Tracks can be removed from the "Tracks in Program" list
using the right arrow button, and reordered using the up and down
arrow buttons.
Press the "OK" button when you are done with your
program, or "Cancel" if you don't want to enter this program.
.SS The Select dialog
This dialog appears when you press the "Program..." button when
programs have been previously entered.
Select the name of the program
you want to play from the list.
You can use the "New" button to
create a new program, or the "Modify" button to change an existing
program.
Press the "OK" button to choose the selected program, and
press "Cancel" if you don't want to select a program.
.SS The File dialog
The File dialog appears when you press the "File..." button.
Enter
the title and artist of the current CD in the "Title" and "Artist"
text fields.
Enter the names of the tracks on the CD in the numbered
text fields.
If there are more tracks on the CD than there are
numbered text fields, use the scroll bar to access the additional
tracks.
Press the "OK" button to accept the information you have
entered, or press the "Cancel" button to close the dialog without
changing the information.
.SH FILES
.nf
/dev/scsi/sc0d?l0 (CD-ROM drive)
.br
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Cdplayer
.br
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/cdplayer/* (bitmaps for push buttons)
.br
$HOME/.cdplayerrc (old catalog for titles, track names, and programs)
.br
$HOME/.cddb (catalog for titles, track names, and programs)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
cdplayer(1).
