'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CHACL 1 "ACL User Commands" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CHACL 1 "ACL User Commands"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CHACL 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CHACL 1 "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
chacl \- change the access control list of a file or directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chacl acl pathname...
.br
.B chacl -b acl dacl pathname...
.br
.B chacl -d dacl pathname...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I chacl\^
changes the Access Control List (see \f4acl\f1(4)) for a file or directory.
The \f4-b\f1 flag indicates that there are two ACLs, the first is the
access ACL and the second the directory default ACL.  The \f4-d\f1 flag
indicates that there are two ACLs, the first one is the directory
default ACL and the second the access ACL.  The ACL(s) specified are
applied to each file in the \f4pathname\f1 arguments.
.P
Each ACL is a string which is processed via \f4acl_from_text\fP(3c).
These strings are made up of comma separated clauses each of which
is of the form, tag:name:perm.  Where \f4tag\fP can be
.TP
"user" (or "u")
indicating that the entry is a user ACL entry.
.TP
"group" (or "g")
indicating that the entry is a group ACL entry.
.TP
"other" (or "o")
indicating that the entry is an other ACL entry.
.TP
"mask" (or "m")
indicating that the entry is a mask ACL entry.
.P
\f4name\fP is a string which is the user or group name for the ACL entry.
A null \f4name\fP in a user or group ACL entry indicates the file
owner or owner's group.
\f4perm\fP is the string "rwx" where each of the entries may be replaced
by a "-" indicating no access of that type, e.g. "r-x", "--x", "---".
.SH EXAMPLES
A minimum ACL:
\f4chacl u::rwx,g::r-x,o::r-- file\fP
.br
The file ACL is set so that the file's owner has rwx, the file owner's
group has read and execute, and others have read only access to the file.
.P
An ACL that is not a minimum ACL, that is, one that specifies
a user or group other than the file's owner or owner's group,
must contain a mask entry:
\f4chacl u::rwx,g::r-x,o::r--,u:guest:r--,m::r-x file1 file2\fP
.P
You can use the output of \f4ls -D\fP to get the ACL argument to
\f4chacl\fP.
To set the default and access ACLs on newdir to be the 
same as on oldir, you could type:
\f4chacl -b `ls -dD olddir | cut -d"[" -f2 |  cut -d"/" -f1` `ls -dD bardir | cut -d"[" -f2 |  cut -d"/" -f2 | cut -d"]" -f1` newdir
\fP
.SH CAUTIONS
\f4chacl\fP replaces the existing ACL.  To add or delete entries, you
must first do \f4ls -D\fP to get the existing ACL, and use the output
to form the arguments to \f4chacl\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
acl(4),
acl_from_text(3c).
