'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CHCAP 1 "Capabilities User Commands" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CHCAP 1 "Capabilities User Commands"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CHCAP 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CHCAP 1 "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
chcap \- change file capability sets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chcap
[ \f2capsets\fP | -r ]
.I "pathname \&..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I chcap\^
changes the effective, permitted, and inheritable capability sets
of the specified file(s) or removes them.  A file's capability sets affect the
capabilities that are assigned to a process upon execution of the
file.  For a more complete description of the capability mechanism,
see \f4capabilities\fP(4).
.P
\f4capsets\fP is a string that describes the changes to the file
capability sets.  It is comprised of one or more capability lists.
Each capability list has the form:
.P
.ce
capname[,capname...]OF
.P
where capname is a capability name (e.g., CAP_DAC_READ, CAP_DAC_WRITE,
CAP_CHOWN, etc.).  The capability name ALL indicates all capabilties.
Capability names may be expressed in either upper or lower case.
For a complete description of avaliable capability names, see
\f4capabilities\fP(4).
.P
F is a sequence of one or more flags chosen from "e", "i", "p" indicating
which file capability sets are to be affected.  "e" indicates the effective
capability set, "p" the permitted capability set, and "i" the inherited
capability set.
.P
O is the operation chosen from "=","+","-", indicating to initialize,
add, or delete the specified capabilities in the affected capability sets.
.P
If multiple capability lists are specified in \f4capsets\fP, each
capability list must be separated by white space, and the entire
\f4capsets\fP string must be escaped from shell interpretation
(i.e. enclosed in quotes).
.P
Specifying \fBall=\fP as a prefix within the \f4capsets\fP string
clears all current capability sets prior to processing the remainder
of the string.
.P
The capability sets of a file can be displayed using
the \f4ls\fP(1) -P option.

The \fB-r\fP option is used to entirely remove all capability sets on
the specified files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
\fBchcap CAP_DAC_WRITE-p file\fP
.br
Removes CAP_DAC_WRITE from the file's permitted capability set.
.P
\fBchcap CAP_DAC_WRITE=p file\fP
.br
Initializes the file's permitted capability set to contain only
CAP_DAC_WRITE.
.P
\fBchcap "all= CAP_DAC_WRITE=p" file\fP
.br
Clears all of the file's capability sets, and initializes the file's
permitted capability set to contain only CAP_DAC_WRITE.
.P
\fBchcap CAP_CHOWN+p file\fP
.br
Adds CAP_CHOWN to the file's permitted capability set.
.P
\fBchcap "CAP_DAC_READ+pi CAP_DAC_WRITE+p" file\fP
.br
Adds CAP_DAC_READ and CAP_DAC_WRITE to file's the permitted
capability set, and adds CAP_DAC_READ to the file's
inherited capability set.
.P
\fBchcap -r file\fP
.br
Removes the capability sets on the file.
.SH SEE ALSO
capabilities(4),
capability(4),
ls(1).
