'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CHLABEL 1 "Mandatory Access Control User Commands" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CHLABEL 1 "Mandatory Access Control User Commands"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CHLABEL 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CHLABEL 1 "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
chlabel \- change the label of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chlabel 
[
.B -f
]
label [ path .\|.\|. ]
.br
.B chlabel
[
.B -f
]
.B -m
path
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I chlabel\^
resets the security labels of the files specified by the listed
.I path
arguments to the value specified by
.IR label .
Unprivileged users may only specify a label that is equal to that
of their current process label.
A user with \fBCAP_MAC_UPGRADE\fP capability may specify a label
that is more sensitive or of lower integrity than the current
process label. A user with \fBCAP_MAC_DOWNGRADE\fP capability may
specify a label that is less sensitive or of higher integrity than
the current process label. A user with \fBCAP_FOWNER\fP capability
may change the label of a file that is not owned by that user.
The \fIsuperuser\fP may do any of these things.
.PP
The
.I chlabel
command has the following options:
.TP
.B  \-f
A user with \fBCAP_MAC_RELABEL_OPEN\fP capability may use this option to
change the label of an open file, or specify a label with \fIequal\fP
sensitivity or integrity. This option should be used with care.
.TP
.B  \-m
Make a file's label \fImoldy\fP.
This option only applies to directories, and causes them to perform
multi-level redirection of pathname lookups. A label is not specified
when using the \fB-m\fP option.
.SH SEE ALSO
chcap(1),
chgrp(1),
chmod(1),
mac_set(2),
su(1M).
.br
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.sgi
