.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)chown.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 4/21/88
.\"	@(#)chgrp.1	6.3 (Berkeley) 4/21/88
.\"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} chown 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4chown\fP, \f4chgrp\fP \- change owner or group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3chown\f1 [ \f3\-Rfh\f1 ] owner[{.|:}group] file ...
.sp .8v
\f3chgrp\f1 [ \f3\-Rfh\f1 ] group file ...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chown
changes the owner of the
.I files
to
.IR owner .
The owner may be either a decimal user ID or
a login name found in the password file.
An optional group, separated from the owner by either a
period or a colon, may also be specified.
The group may be either a decimal group ID or
a group name found in the group file.
.PP
.B chgrp
changes the group
ID
of the
.I files
to
.IR group .
The group may be either a decimal group ID or
a group name found in the group
file.
.PP
No errors, except for usage errors, are reported when the
.B \-f
(force) option is given.
.PP
When the
.B \-R
option is given,
the command
recursively descends its directory arguments
setting the specified owner or group.
When symbolic links are encountered and the
.B \-h
option is not given, they are traversed and the owner/group
of the file referenced by the symbolic link is changed.
.PP
When the
.B \-h
option is given
and the file is a symbolic link, change the owner/group of the
symbolic link.
Without this option, the owner/group of the
file referenced by the symbolic link is changed.
.PP
If either command
is invoked by other than the superuser, the set-user-ID
and set-group-ID
bits of the file mode, 04000 and 02000 respectively,
will be cleared.
.PP
Only the owner of a file (or the superuser) may change the owner
or group of that file.
.PP
However, if the variable
.I restricted_chown
is enabled (see \f4intro\fP(2) and \f4systune\fP(1M))
then only the superuser can change the owner of the file, because if users
were able to give files away, they could defeat the file space accounting
procedures.
The owner of the file may change the group ownership only
to those groups of which he is a member.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.br
/etc/group
.SH NOTES
Because
.B chown
uses a depth-first algorithm to recursively descend its directory
arguments, there is a limitation to how deep it can descend which is
dependent on the number of file descriptors available to a given shell.
\f4find\fP(1)
can be used if one needs to descend deeper than a given configuration will
allow.
.\".SH NOTES
.\"In a Remote File Sharing environment,
.\"you may not have the permissions that the
.\"output of the \f3ls \-l\f1 command leads
.\"you to believe.
.\"For more information see the "Mapping
.\"Remote Users" section of Chapter 10 of the
.\"\f2System Administrator's Guide\f1.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(1),
find(1),
chown(2),
group(4),
passwd(4),
stat(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4chown\fP and \f4chgrp\fP will exit with a status of 0 if all file operations completed
successfully.
If there are any failures, the exit status will be > 0.
.\"	@(#)chown.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
