'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.cp @(#)cp	30.4 of 3/4/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CP 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CP 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CP 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CP "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
cp, ln, mv \- copy, link or move files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cp
[
.B \-aDfirRp
.B \-b
.B size
.B \-tP
.B \-e
size
] file1 [file2 ...] target
.br
.B ln
[
.B \-sif
] file1 [file2 ...] target
.br
.B mv
[
.B \-if
] file1 [file2 ...] target
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I file1\^
is copied (linked, moved) to
.IR target .
Under no circumstance can
.I file1\^
and
.I target\^
be the same (take care when using
.IR sh (1)
metacharacters).
If
.I target\^
is a directory, then one or more
files are copied (linked, moved) to that directory.
If
.I target\^
is an existing file, its contents are destroyed, except in the
.B ln
and 
.B ln -s
case where the command will fail and 
.B ln
will write a diagnostic message to standard error (use the
.B \-i
or
.B \-f
option to override this behavior).
.I NOTE\^
that this is a change from the historical  
.B ln
execution.
.P
If
.I mv\^
or
.I ln\^
determines that the mode of
.I target\^
forbids writing, it will
print the mode (see
.IR chmod (2)),
ask for a response,
and read the standard input for one line;
if the line begins with
.BR y ,
the
.I mv\^
or
.I ln\^
occurs, if permissible; if not, the command exits.
When the
.B \-f
option is used
or if the standard input is not a terminal,
no questions are asked
and the
.I mv\^
or
.I ln\^
is done.  Additionally, if
.I target\^
exists, then the
.B \-f
option will force the link when 
.B ln -s
is specified.
If
.I cp\^
determines that the mode of
.I target\^
forbids writing,
the command will fail and
.I cp\^
will write a diagnostic message to standard error (use the
.B \-i
or
.B \-f
option to override this behavior).
.PP
If the
\f4-f\fP
option is specified with
.I mv,
any previous occurrences of the
\f4-i\fP
option will be ignored.
.PP
For
.I mv,
if 
.I file1
is a directory,
.I mv
will perform actions equivalent to the 
.B rename 
function.  If this fails for any reasons other than those 
described for the errno 
.B \[EXDEV\],
.I mv
will write a diagnostic message to standard error, do nothing more with the current 
source file, and go on to any remaining source files. Otherwise,
the file hierarchy rooted in 
.I file1
will be duplicated as a file hierarchy rooted in the destination path. 
The time of last data modification, the time of last access,
the user ID and group ID and file mode will be duplicated.
If the user ID, group ID or file mode of a regular file cannot be duplicated, 
the file mode bits 
.B S_ISUID 
and 
.B S_ISGID 
will not be duplicated.
When files are duplicated to another file system, the invoking process
must has read access to each file being duplicated.
If the duplication of the file hierarchy fails for any reason, 
.I mv
will write a diagnostic message to standard error, do nothing more with the current 
source_file, and go on to any remaining source_files. 
If the duplication of the file characteristics fails for any reason, 
mv
will write a diagnostic message to standard error, but this failure will not cause 
.I mv
to modify its exit status.
If the copying or removal of 
.I file1
is prematurely terminated by a signal or error, 
.I mv
may leave a partial copy of 
.I file1
at the source or destination. The 
.I mv
utility will not modify both 
.I file1
and the destination path simultaneously; termination at any point 
will leave either 
.I file1
or the destination path complete.
.PP
For
.I mv,
if
.I file1\^
is a file and
.I target\^
is a link to another file with links,
the other links remain and
.I target\^
becomes a new file.
.PP
When
.I cp\^
is invoked, if
.I target\^
is not an existing file,
a new file is created
which has the same mode as
.I file1\^
except that the sticky bit
is not set
unless you are super-user;
the owner and group of
.I target\^
are those of the user.
If
.I target\^
is a file,
copying a file into
.I target\^
does not change its
mode, owner or group.
The last modification time
of
.I target\^
(and last access time,
if
.I target\^
did not exist)
and the last access time
of
.I file1\^
are set to the time the copy was made.
If
.I target\^
is a link to a file,
all links remain
and the file is changed.
.PP
When copying between XFS filesystems,
.I cp
will replicate holes in
.I file1\^
in
.I target\^.
.PP
If the
\f4-p\fP
option is specified,
.I cp
will duplicate the following characteristics of each 
source file in the corresponding destination file:
.TP 5
.B 1.
The time of last data modification and time of last access. 
If this duplication fails for any reason, 
.I cp
will write a diagnostic message to standard error.
.TP
.B 2.
The user ID and group ID. If this duplication fails for any reason, 
.I cp
will write a diagnostic message to standard error.
.TP
.B 3.
The file permission bits and the S_ISUID and S_ISGID bits. 
Other, implementation-dependent, bits may be duplicated as well. 
If this duplication fails for any reason, 
.I cp
will write a diagnostic message to standard error.
.TP 5
.PP
If the user ID or the group ID cannot be duplicated, 
the file permission bits S_ISUID and S_ISGID will be cleared. 
If these bits are present in the source file but are not 
duplicated in the destination file,
.I cp
will write a diagnostic message to standard error.
.PP
The
.B \-a
option to
.I cp
will copy user mode XFS attributes,
the option is silently ignored if any of the files involved is not on
an XFS filesystem.
.PP
The
.B \-D
option to
.I cp
specifies that direct IO should be used to copy the file,
file data is not buffered in the kernel.
The
.B \-b blocksize
option can be used to specify a specific blocksize to use,
this option can also be used without
.B \-D .
Direct IO will only function on XFS and EFS filesystems.
.PP
If the
.B \-t
option is specified then
.I cp
will attempt to create an output file on the realtime extent of the
.I target\^
filesystem.
The
.B \-e extsize
option can be used to specify an extent size other than the default
for the filesystem.
The
.B \-P
option is used to indicate that the file size should be padded out
to a legitimate size for a realtime file if
.I file1\^
is not a legitimate size.
The
.I target\^
filesystem must be XFS for the
.B \-t
option to work.
.PP
With the
.B \-s
option
.I ln
creates symbolic links.
A symbolic link is a special kind of file whose contents are
the name of another file
(see
.IR symlink (2)).
A symbolic link contains the name of the file to which it is linked.
Most system calls,
including
.IR open (2),
.IR stat (2),
and
.IR access (2),
substitute these contents
when the name of a symbolic link occurs in a pathname.
This process is known as ``following'' symbolic links.
.IR stat (2),
.IR readlink (2),
.IR symlink (2),
and
.IR unlink (2)
also do this substitution,
except on the last component of the pathname.
Thus, they are said not to ``follow'' symbolic links.
Symbolic links may span file systems and may refer to directories.
Note that
.I cp
``follows'' symbolic links (except when using the 
.B \-R
option, while
.I mv
and
.I ln
do not ``follow'' symbolic links.
.PP
If the
.B \-i
option is specified with
.I cp,\^
.I ln,\^
or
.I mv
and
.I target\^
exists, the user is prompted with the message:
.sp
	overwrite \f2target\f1?
.sp
If the user answers with a line starting with `y', the move or copy
continues.  Any other reply prevents the command from completing.
When creating soft links this warning often indicates that
the user has swapped the
.I file
and
.I target
parameters, which results in replacement of the target file 
with a dangling symbolic link.
.PP
If the
\f4-i\fP
option is specified with
.I mv,
any previous occurrences of the
\f4-f\fP
option will be ignored.
.PP
If the 
.B \-r 
or 
.B \-R 
option is specified with 
.I cp 
and any of the source files are directories, 
.I cp 
copies each subtree rooted at that name;
in this case target must be a directory.  The difference
between 
.B \-r 
and 
.B \-R 
is that 
.B \-r 
causes 
.I cp 
to follow symbolic links and 
.B \-R 
does not.  (Note that the behavior of 
.B \-R 
is defined by POSIX, whereas the behavior of 
.B \-r 
is particular to this implementation.)
.PP
If the
.B \-R
option is specified with
.I cp\^
and the source file is not of type directory or regular file,
then the following steps will be taken:
.TP 5
.B 1.
The \f2target\fP file will be created with the same file type as
\f2file1\fP.
.TP
.B 2.
If \f2file1\fP is a type FIFO, the \f2target\fP file permission 
bits will be the same as those of \f2file1\fP modified by the file 
creation mask of the user if the \f4-p\fP option was not specified.
.sp
If this creation fails for any reason,
.I cp
will write a diagnostic  message to standard error, do nothing more with
the source file and go on to any remaining files.
.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(1),
cpio(1),
rm(1).
.SH WARNINGS
.I ln\^
without
.B \-s
will not link across file systems.
This restriction is necessary
because file systems can be added and removed.
.SH BUGS
If
.I file1\^
and
.I target\^
lie on different file systems,
.I mv\^
must copy the file and delete the original.
In this case any
linking relationship with other files
is lost.
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
