'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.cpio @(#)cpio	41.22 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} cpio 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} cpio 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} cpio 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} cpio "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4cpio\f1 \- copy file archives in and out
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4cpio \-i\f1\|[\|\f4bBcdfkmrsStuvTV6\f1\|] [\f4\-C \f2bufsize\f1\|]
[\|\f4\-E\f2 file\f1\|]
[\|\f4\-H\f2 hdr\f1\|]
[\|\f4\-I \f2file\f1\| [\f4\-M \f2message\f1]\|]
.DS
	[\f4\-R \f2ID\f1]\|] [\|\f2pattern \f1. . .\|]
.DE
.PP
\f4cpio \-o\f1\|[\|\f4aABcKLvVW\f1\|] [\|\f4\-C \f2bufsize\f1\|]
[\|\f4\-H\f2 hdr\f1\|]
[\|\f4\-O \f2file\f1\| [\f4\-M \f2message\f1]\|]
.PP
\f4cpio\f1
\f4\-p\f1\|[\f4\|adlLmuvVW\f1\|]
[\f4\-R \f2ID\f1]
\f2directory\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4\-i\f1, \f4\-o\f1, and \f4\-p\f1 options
select the action to be performed.
The following list describes each of the actions
(which are mutually exclusive).
.PP
\f4cpio \-i\f1
(copy in) extracts files from the standard input,
which is assumed to be the product of a previous
\f4cpio \-o\f1.
Only files with names that match
.I patterns\^
are selected.
.I patterns\^
are regular expressions given in the filename-generating notation of
\f4sh\fP(1).
In
.IR patterns ,
meta-characters
\f4?\f1,
\f4\(**\f1,
and
\f4[\f1 . . .\f4 ]\f1
match the slash (\f4/\fP)
character, and backslash (\f4\e\fP)
is an escape character.
A \f4!\f1 meta-character means \f2not\f1.
(For example, the \f4!abc*\f1 pattern would exclude all files that
begin with \f4abc\f1.)
Multiple
.I patterns\^
may be specified and if no
.I patterns\^
are specified, the default for
.I patterns\^
is
\f4\(**\f1
(that is, select all files).
Each pattern must be enclosed in double quotes;
otherwise, the name of a file in the current directory might be used.
Extracted files are conditionally created and copied 
into the current directory tree based on the options described below.
.PP
The permissions of the files will be 
the same as those at the time of
the previous \f4cpio \-o\f1, subject to modification by
the current
.I umask
value.  Use a
.I umask
of 0 if you want the modes to match the original modes.
The owner and group of these files 
will be those of the current user,
unless the current user is super-user.
If this is true,
the permissions, owner, and group of the files
will be the same as 
those at the time of the previous \f4cpio \-o\fP.
.PP
NOTE: If \f4cpio \-i\f1 tries to create
a file that already exists
and the existing file
is the same age or younger (newer),
\f4cpio\f1 will output a warning message
and not replace the file.
(The \f4\-u\f1 option can be used to overwrite, unconditionally,
the existing file.)
If file names are given as absolute pathnames to 
\f4cpio \-o\fP,
then when the files are restored via
\f4cpio \-i\fP, they will be written to their original directories regardless
of the current directory.
This behavior can be circumvented by using the 
\f4\-r\fP
option.
.P
\f4cpio \-o\f1 (copy out)
reads the standard input to obtain a list of pathnames
and copies those files onto the standard output
together with pathname and status information.
.P
\f4cpio \-p\f1 (pass)
reads the standard input to obtain a list of pathnames
of files that are conditionally created and copied into the destination
\f2directory\fP
tree based on the options described below.
.P
\f4cpio\f1 processes supplementary code set characters,
and recognizes supplementary code set characters in the
\f2message\fP given to the \f4\\-M\fP option (see below)
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4en\%vi\%ron\fP(5)].
In regular expressions, pattern searches are performed
on characters, not bytes, as described on \f4sh\f1(1).
Under the \f4\\-vt\fP option (see below), the date is displayed
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_TIME\fP
environment variable.
.PP
The meanings of the available options are
.PP
.TP
\f4\-a\f1
Reset access times of input files after they have been copied.
Access times are not reset for linked files when
\f4cpio \-pla\f1
is specified (mutually exclusive with \f4\-m\f1).
See NOTES (see below) for additional error information.
.TP
\f4\-A\f1
Append files to an archive.
The \f4\-A\f1 option requires 
the \f4\-O\f1 option.
Valid only with archives that are files,
or that are on floppy diskettes or hard disk partitions.
.TP
\f4\-b\f1
Reverse the order of the bytes within each word.
(Use only with the \f4\-i\f1 option.)
.TP
\f4\-B\f1
Input/output is to be blocked 5120 bytes to the record.
The default buffer size is device dependent when neither this
nor the \f4\-C\f1 option is used. (\f4-B\f1 does not apply to
the \f4pass\f1 option.)
.TP
\f4\-c\f1
Read or write header information in
\s-1ASCII\s+1
character
form for portability.
Always use this option 
(or the \f4\-H \f1 option)
when the origin and the destination machines are different types
(mutually exclusive with \f4\-H\f1 and \f4\-6\f1).
(The \f4\-c\f1 option implies expanded device numbers, thus
is not POSIX compliant)
.TP
\f4-C\f2 bufsize\f1
Input/output is to be blocked \f2bufsize\f1 bytes to the record,
where \f2bufsize\f1 is replaced by a positive integer.
The default buffer size is device dependent
when neither this nor the \f4\-B\f1 option is used.
(\f4-C\f1 does not apply to the \f4pass\f1 option.)
.TP
\f4-d\f1
Directories
are to be created as needed.
.TP
\f4-E \f2file\f1
Specify an input file (\f2file\f1)
that contains a list of filenames
to be extracted from the archive (one filename per line).
.TP
\f4-f\f1
Copy in all files
except those in
.I patterns.\^
(See the paragraph on \f4cpio -i\f1 for a description of \f2patterns\f1.)
.TP
\f4-H\f2 hdr\f1
Read or write header information in \f2hdr\f1 format.
Always use this option or the \f4-c\f1 option 
when the origin and the destination machines
are different types
(mutually exclusive with \f4-c\f1 and \f4-6\f1).
Valid values for \f2hdr\f1 are:
.RS
.TP 16
\f4crc\f1 or \f4CRC\f1
\s-1ASCII\s+1 header with expanded device numbers and
an additional per-file checksum (Not POSIX compliant,
since header format is different)
.TP 16
\f4ustar\f1 or \f4USTAR\f1
IEEE/P1003 Data Interchange Standard header and format
.TP 16
\f4tar\f1 or \f4TAR\f1
\f4tar\f1 header and format
.TP 16
\f4odc\f1
\s-1ASCII\s+1 header with small device numbers
.RE
.TP
\f4-I \f2file\f1
Read the contents of \f2file\f1 as an input archive.
If \f2file\f1 is a character special device, and the current
medium has been completely read, replace the medium and press
\s-1RETURN\s+1 to continue to the next medium.
.sp
The specified \f2file\f1 can also reference a remote tape device. A remote
tape device name has the form:
.sp
.ti +0.5i
.IR [user @ ] system:/dev/???
.sp
Where
.I system
is the remote system,
.I /dev/???
is the particular drive on the remote system (raw,
rewinding, non-rewinding, etc.),
and the optional
.I user
is the login name to be used
on the remote system,
if different from the current
user's login name.
.sp
This option is used only with the \f4-i\f1 option.
.TP
\f4-k\f1
Attempt to skip corrupted file headers and I/O errors that may be encountered.
If you want to copy files from a medium that is corrupted or out of
sequence, this option lets you read only those files with good headers.
(For \f4cpio\fP archives that contain other \f4cpio\f1 archives, if an
error is encountered \f4cpio\fP may terminate prematurely.
\f4cpio\fP will find the next good header, which may be one for
a smaller archive, and terminate when the smaller archive's trailer is encountered.)
Used only with the \f4-i\f1 option.
.TP
\f4-K\f1
Required for files larger than 2 Gigabytes.
\f4Cpio\f1 will issue a warning and skip such files if an attempt is made to
archive them without specifying the \f4-K\f1 flag.
Used only with the \f4-o\f1 option.
Mutually exclusive with \f4-c\f1, \f4-H\f1 options.
Because the \f4-c\f1 option can not be used, device files with
major numbers greater than 127 or minor numbers greater than 255
could not normally be archived; the binary format is 
extended with this option so that those device files can be backed up, but
will not be able to be restored on older or non-IRIX versions of 
\f4cpio\f1 with the correct major and minor number.
Warning: Use of this option may result in the creation of an archive that is
not portable to other machines; a warning is issued on the first file causing
the archive to not be portable.
.TP
\f4-l\f1
Whenever possible,
link files rather than copying them.
(Usable only with the \f4-p\f1 option.)
If the link fails a error message will be displayed
and then \f4cpio\fP will attempt to copy the file.
.TP
\f4-L\f1
Follow symbolic links.
The default is not to follow symbolic links.
.TP
\f4-m\f1
Retain previous file modification time.
The modification time and access time of a restored file 
is set to the modification time of the file
when it was backed up.  This option is ineffective on 
directories that are being copied.  This option is mutually 
exclusive with \f4-a\f1.
.TP
\f4-M \f2message\f1\f1
Define a \f2message\fP to use when switching media.
When you use the \f4-O\f1 or \f4-I\f1 options and specify
a character special device, you can use this option to define
the message that is printed when you reach the end of the medium.
One \f4%d\f1 can be placed in \f2message\fP to print the sequence
number of the next medium needed to continue.
\f2message\fP may contain supplementary code set characters.
.TP
\f4-O \f2file\f1\f1
Direct the output of
\f4cpio\fP
to \f2file\f1.
If \f2file\f1 is a character special device and the current medium
is full, replace the medium and press the \s-1RETURN\s+1
key to
continue to the next medium.
Use only with the \f4-o\f1 option.
.TP
\f4-r\f1
Interactively rename files.
If the user presses the \s-1RETURN\s+1
key
alone, the file is skipped.
If the user types a ``.'' the original pathname will be retained.
(Not available with \f4cpio -p\f1.)
.TP
\f4-R\f2 \s-1ID\s+1\f1
Reassign ownership and group information for each file 
to user \f2\s-1ID\s+1\f1 
(\f2\s-1ID\s+1\f1 must be a valid user \s-1ID\s+1
from \f4/etc/passwd\f1).
This option is valid only for a super-user.
.TP
\f4-s\f1
Swap bytes within each half word.
.TP
\f4-S\f1
Swap halfwords within each word.
.TP
\f4-t\f1
Print a table of contents of the input.
No files are created
(mutually exclusive with
\f4-V\f1).
.TP
\f4-T\f1
Test (verify) the contents of the archive against the files in the
filesystem.  A \f4=\fP is printed in the first column if the file
is the same, otherwise \f4!\fP.  If given as \f4-TT\fP, a second
\f4=\fP or \f4!\fP is output, based on the owner, group, and permissions
matching, and in the case of symbolic links, the contents of the symbolic
link.
.TP
\f4-W\f1
Detect and handle specially files with holes (sections of a file
with no disk blocks allocated to it, normally caused by seeking over
a section of the file while it is being created).  Holey files are
marked specially in the archive, and a block map is written at the
start of a file.  Only the non-hole sections are written to the archive,
normally requiring much less space than when this option is not used.

When used, and
holey files are found, the archive will not be compatible with other
versions of \f4cpio\fP (non-IRIX versions, or IRIX versions older than
IRIX 6.5); a warning is issued on the first file causing the archive to not
be portable.
Used only with the \f4-o\f1 option.
Mutually exclusive with \f4-c\f1, \f4-H\f1 options.
When the \f4-v\fP option is used, the type is printed as \f4H\fP
for holey files, rather than \f4-\fP.
.TP
\f4-u\f1
Copy
unconditionally
(normally, an older file will not replace a newer file with the same name).
.TP
\f4-v\f1
Verbose: causes a list of file names to be printed.
When used with the
\f4-t\f1
option, the table of contents looks like the output of an
\f4ls -l\f1
command [see \f4ls\f1(1)];
dates are displayed
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_TIME\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
.TP
\f4-V\f1
Special Verbose:
print a dot for each file read or written.
Useful to assure the user that \f4cpio\f1 is working without
printing out all file names.
.TP
\f4-6\f1
Process a \s-1UNIX\s+1 System Sixth Edition archive format file.
Use only with the \f4-i\f1 option
(mutually exclusive with \f4-c\f1 and \f4-H\f1)).
.PP
Note:
\f4cpio\fP assumes four-byte words.
.br
.ne5
.PP
If, when writing to a character device
\f1(\f4-o\f1)
or reading from a character device\p
.br
\f1(\f4-i\f1),
\f4cpio\fP reaches the end of a medium 
(such as the end of a tape),
and the\p
.br
\f4-O\f1 and \f4-I\f1 options aren't used,
\f4cpio\fP will print the following message:
.PP
.RS
.ft 4
If you want to go on, type device/file name when ready.
.ft 1
.RE
.PP
To continue, you must replace the medium and type the character
special device name (\f4/dev/tape\f1 for example) and
press \s-1RETURN\s+1.
You may want to continue by directing \f4cpio\fP to
use a different device.
For example, if you have two tape drives 
you may want to switch between them 
so \f4cpio\fP can proceed while you are changing the tapes.
(Simply pressing \s-1RETURN\s+1
causes the \f4cpio\fP process to exit.)
.SH EXAMPLES
The following examples show three uses of \f4cpio\fP.
.PP
When standard input is 
directed through a pipe to \f4cpio -o\f1,
files are grouped so 
they can be directed (>) to a single file
(\f4../newfile\f1).
The \f4-c\f1 option insures that 
the file will be portable to other machines
(as would the \f4-H\f1 option).
Instead of \f4ls\fP(1),
you could use
\f4find\fP(1),
\f4echo\fP(1),
\f4cat\fP(1),
and so on, to pipe a list of names to \f4cpio\fP.
You could direct the output to a device instead of a file.
.PP
.RS
\f4ls \|\(bv \|cpio \|-oc \|> ../newfile\f1
.RE
.PP
\f4cpio -i\f1
uses the output file of 
\f4cpio -o\f1
(directed through a pipe with \f4cat\f1 in the example below), extracts those 
files that match
the patterns
\f1(\f4memo/a1\f1,
\f4memo/b\(**\f1),
creates directories below the current directory as needed
\f1(\f4-d\f1
option), and places the files in the appropriate directories.
The \f4-c\f1 option is used if the input file was created with
a portable header.
If no patterns were given, all files from
\f4newfile\f1
would be placed in the directory.
.PP
.RS
\f4cat newfile \|\(bv \|cpio \|-icd "memo/a1" "memo/b\(**"\f1
.RE
.PP
\f4cpio -p\f1 takes the file names piped to it and copies 
or links (\f4-l\f1 option)
those files to another directory (\f4newdir\f1 in the example below).
The
\f4-d\f1
option
says to create directories as needed.
The
\f4-m\f1
option says retain the
modification time.
(It is important to use the
\f4-depth \f1
option of
\f4find\fP(1)
to generate pathnames for
\f4cpio\fP.
This eliminates problems 
\f4cpio\fP could have trying to create files under read-only directories.)
The destination directory, \f4newdir\f1, must exist.
.PP
.RS
\f4find . -depth -print \|\(bv \|cpio \|-pdlmv \|newdir\f1
.RE
.PP
Note that when you use \f4cpio\fP in conjunction with \f4find\fP,
if you use the \f4-L\f1 option with \f4cpio\fP
then you must use the \f4-follow\f1 option with \f4find\fP
and vice versa.
Otherwise there will be undesirable results.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore.abi\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1 (5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4ar\fP(1), \f4cat\fP(1), \f4echo\fP(1), \f4find\fP(1), \f4ls\fP(1),
\f4tar\fP(1), \f4umask\fP(1),
\f4attr\fP(1), \f4xfsdump\fP(1m),
\f4archives\fP(4)
.SH NOTES
An archive created with the \f4-c\f1 option (defaults to
an ASCII header with expanded device numbers and an additional
per-file checksum - \f4CRC\f1) on a Release 4
system cannot be read on System V Release 3.2 systems, or earlier.
.PP
As noted in the option descriptions above, use of the \f4\-W\f1 or
\f4\-K\f1 options may cause the resulting archive to be non-portable,
and possibly not even usable, on older versions (prior to IRIX 6.5),
or other operating systems.  The types of files that might cause problems
are those larger than 2 Gbytes, files with holes (no data blocks), and device
files with major numbers larger than 127 or minor numbers larger than 255.
.PP
Use the \f4\-H odc\f1 option in the current version of \f4cpio\f1
(ie. IRIX 5.X Operating system), which is equivalent to the header 
created by the \f4\-c\f1 option in earlier System V releases 
(ie. IRIX 4.0.X Operating System).  This is to be used when reading
previously created \f4cpio\f1 image(s) on a System V Release 4 
systems (ie. IRIX 5.X Operating system).
.PP  
\f4cpio\f1 will issue a warning and continue archiving when 
the block or character device numbers are truncated when using 
the \f4\-H odc\f1 option.  
.PP
\f4cpio\f1 will issue a warning and continue archiving when the userid
or group id of associated with a file is too large.  The userid for the
user ``nobody'' will be substituted.  The limits are 65535 for binary
(default) format, and 262143 for \f4-H ustar\f1, \f4-H tar\f1 and \f4-H
odc\f1 formats.  There is no limit for \f4-H crc\f1 or \f4-c\f1 formats.
.PP
It is common to construct a list of file names with \f3find\f1 or other
commands to pipe to cpio.  Filenames with embedded white space will
work this way, with the exception of filenames with embedded newlines,
since each filename in the list is terminated by a newline.  This
may sometimes produce confusing error messages.
.PP
If the \f4Byte swapped data \- re\-try with correct device\f1 message
occurs, check to make sure that the correct device (switched or
non-switched) is begin used to dump the media (see \f4tps\fP(7M)).
.PP
Path names are restricted to 256 characters for the binary (the default)
and\p
\f4-H odc\f1
header formats.
Otherwise, pathnames are restricted to 1024 characters.
.PP
Only a super-user user can copy special files.  Additionally, when
running from a setuid program (or if made setuid itself), some files
may still not be accessible, since the effective userid is checked in
several places, rather than the real userid.  This is deliberate.
.PP
Blocks are reported in 512-byte quantities.
.PP
If a file has \f4000\fP permissions, 
contains more than 0 characters of data,
and the user does not have the appropriate access to
the file, the file will not be saved or restored.
.PP
The default buffer size is optimized for the device and
using the \f4-C\fP option to specify a different block size may cause
\f4cpio\fP to fail.
Therefore, care must be taken when choosing the block size.
To avoid wasting space on streaming tape drives, the
\f4-C\fP option with an appropriate block size should be used.
.PP
When using the \f4-a\fP option (resets the access times of the input files)
\f4cpio\fP cannot reset the access time of the files in /dev/fd.  This is
because these are special "file descriptor files" (see \f4fd\fP(4)).
These "file descriptor files" cannot have there access times reset with \f4cpio\fP 
or \f4utime\fP(2).  \f4cpio\fP with the \f4-a\fP option will issue the warning 
message(s) "Cannot reset time on "/dev/fd/XX" : Operation not supported" when
confronted with these files.
.PP
Extended Attributes are not archived or restored.
See \f4attr\fP(1) for more information about Extended Attributes and see
\f4xfsdump\fP(1m) for a method to back them up.
.\"	@(#)cpio.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
.Ee
