'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.crontab @(#)crontab	30.4 of 3/4/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CRONTAB 1 "User Environment Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CRONTAB 1 "User Environment Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CRONTAB 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CRONTAB "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
'\" t
.SH NAME
crontab \- user crontab file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crontab
[file] 
.br
.B crontab
\f3\-r\f1
[file]
.br
.B crontab
\f3\-l\f1
[file]
.br
.B crontab
\f3\-e\f1
[file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I crontab
copies the specified file,
or standard input if no file is specified,
into a directory that holds all users' crontabs.
The \-r option removes a user's crontab from the crontab directory.
\f2crontab\fP \-l will list the crontab file for the
invoking user. The -e option spawns an editor which contains the
user's current crontab (as output by crontab -l), and automatically
updates the crontab when the user saves the file and exits the 
editor. The name of the editor to invoke can be specified by the
environment variable VISUAL or EDITOR; else, vi is used by default.
.PP
Normal users may only remove, list, or edit their own crontab files
which is the default.  The superuser (root) may supply any username
following \f3\-r\f1, \f3\-l\f1, or \f3\-e\f1 to remove, list, or edit
that user's crontab.
.PP
If the file 
.B /etc/cron.d/cron.allow
exists, only users whose names appear in the file are permitted to use
.I crontab.
This restriction applies to all users, including root.
If that file does not exist,
the file
.B /etc/cron.d/cron.deny
is checked to determine if the user
should be denied access to
.I crontab.
If neither file exists, only root is allowed to
submit a job.
If \f3cron.allow\f1 does not exist and \f3cron.deny\f1 exists but is
empty, global usage is permitted.
The allow/deny files consist of one user name
per line.
.PP
A crontab file
consists of lines of six fields each.
The fields are separated by spaces or tabs.
The first five are integer patterns that
specify the following:
.sp
.br
	minute (0\-59),
.br
	hour (0\-23),
.br
	day of the month (1\-31),
.br
	month of the year (1\-12),
.br
	day of the week (0\-6 with 0=Sunday).
.sp
Each of these patterns may
be either an asterisk  (meaning all legal values)
or a list of elements separated by commas.
An element is either a number or
two numbers separated by a minus sign
(meaning an inclusive range).
Note that the specification of days
may be made by two fields
(day of the month and day of the week).
If both are specified as a list of elements, 
both are adhered to.
For example, 0 0 1,15 \(** 1 would run a command on the
first and fifteenth of each month, as well as on every Monday.
To specify days by only one field,
the other field should be set to \(**
(for example, 0 0 \(** \(** 1 would run a command only on Mondays).
.PP
The sixth field of a line in a crontab
file is a string that is executed by the shell 
at the specified times.
A percent character
in this field (unless escaped by 
\f3\e\fP)
is translated to a new-line
character.
Only the first line (up to a % or end of line)
of the command field is executed by the shell.
The other lines are made available to the
command as standard input.
.PP
The shell is invoked from your 
.B \s-1$HOME\s+1 
directory with an 
.BR arg0 " of " sh.
Users who desire to have their \f2.profile\fP executed must
explicitly do so in the crontab file.
.I Cron
supplies a default environment for every shell, defining
\f3\s-1HOME\s+1, \s-1LOGNAME\s+1, \s-1USER\s+1, \s-1SHELL\s+1(=/bin/sh),\f1
\f3PATH(=/usr/sbin:/usr/bsd/:/usr/bin:/bin/:/etc:/usr/etc), \f1and \f3TZ\f1.
.PP
If you do not redirect the standard output 
and standard error of your commands,
any generated output or errors
will be mailed to you.
.PP
Any errors encountered while parsing the crontab file (or stdin) will cause
.I crontab
to abort with no changes being made to any existing crontab.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.75i
/etc/cron.d	main cron directory
.br
/var/spool/cron/crontabs	spool area
.br
/var/cron/log	accounting information
.br
/etc/cron.d/cron.allow	optional list of allowed users
.br
/etc/cron.d/cron.deny	list of denied users
.br
/etc/cron.d/FIFO	to communicate crontab changes to \fIcron\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sh(1), cron(1M)
.SH NOTES
If you inadvertently enter the 
.B crontab
command with no argument(s), you may exit without overwriting the existing
crontab entry either by generating an interrupt (typically by typing ^C or
DEL), or by providing empty input (typically by typing ^D on the first empty
line).
.PP
If a job is scheduled during the 'witching hour' - the time during
a change from the main to alternate time zone, the job will either be
run once (if the actual time exists twice) or not at all (if the actual time never exists).
.Ee
