'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.crypt @(#)crypt	30.4 of 3/4/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CRYPT 1 "Security Administration Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CRYPT 1 "Security Administration Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CRYPT 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CRYPT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
crypt \- encode/decode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crypt
[ password ]
.br
.B crypt [\-k]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I crypt\^
reads from the standard input and writes
on the standard output.
The
.I password\^
is a key that selects a particular transformation.
If no
argument
is given,
.I crypt\^
demands a key from the terminal and turns
off printing while the key is being typed in.
If the 
\f3\-k\f1
option is used, 
.I crypt\^
will use the key assigned to the 
environment variable \s-1CrYpTkEy\s0.
.I crypt\^
encrypts and decrypts with the same key:
.PP
.RS
crypt \|key \|<clear \|>cypher
.br
crypt \|key \|<cypher \|\(bv \|pr
.RE
.PP
Files encrypted by
.I crypt\^
are compatible with those treated by the editors
.IR ed (1),
.IR edit (1),
.IR ex (1),
and
.IR vi (1)
in encryption mode.
.PP
The security of encrypted files depends on three factors:
the fundamental method must be hard to solve;
direct search of the key space must be infeasible;
``sneak paths'' by which keys or clear text can become
visible must be minimized.
.PP
.I crypt\^
implements a one-rotor machine designed along the lines
of the German Enigma, but with a 256-element rotor.
Methods of attack on such machines are known, but not widely;
moreover the amount of work required is likely to be large.
.PP
The transformation of a key into the internal
settings of the machine is deliberately designed to
be expensive, i.e., to take a substantial fraction of
a second to compute.
However,
if keys are restricted to (say)
three lower-case letters,
then encrypted files can be read by expending only
a substantial fraction of
five minutes of machine time.
.PP
If the key is an argument to the
.I crypt\^
command,
it is potentially visible to users executing
.IR ps (1)
or a derivative.
.ig
To minimize this possibility,
.I crypt\^
takes care to destroy any record of the key
immediately upon entry.
..
The choice of keys and key security
are the most vulnerable aspect of
.IR crypt .
.SH FILES
.ta 1i
/dev/tty	for typed key
.DT
.SH SEE ALSO
ed(1), edit(1), ex(1), makekey(1), ps(1), stty(1), vi(1).
.SH WARNING
.\" XXXXX - Cryptographic policy of October 1997 allows export of this command.
.\"This command is provided with the Security Administration Utilities,
.\"which is only available in the United States.
If two or more files encrypted with the same key are concatenated
and an attempt is made to decrypt the result, only the
contents of the first of the original files will be decrypted correctly.
.SH BUGS
If output is piped to
.I nroff
and the encryption key is
.I not\^
given on the command line,
.I crypt\^
can leave terminal modes in a strange state
(see
.IR stty (1)).
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
.\"	@(#)crypt.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
.Ee
