'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.cut @(#)cut	41.10 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} cut 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} cut 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} cut 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} cut "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.if t .ds ' \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\'\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ' '
.if t .ds ` \h@.05m@\s+4\v@.333m@\`\v@-.333m@\s-4\h@.05m@
.if n .ds ` `
.SH NAME
\f4cut\f1 \- cut out selected fields of each line of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4cut \-b\f2
\^list\f1 [\f4\-n\fP] [\|\f2file\f1 . . .]
.br
\f4cut \-c\f2
\^list\fP [\|\f2file\fP ...]
.br
\f4cut \-f\f2
\^list\f1 [\f4\-d\f2
\|char\|\f1] [\f4\-s\fP] [\|\f2file\f1 . . .]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use
\f4cut\fP
to cut out columns from a table or 
fields from each line of a file; in data base parlance, it implements
the projection of a relation.
The fields as specified by
.I list\^
can be fixed length,
that is, character positions as on a punched card
(\f4\-c\fP option) or the length can vary from line to line
and be marked with a field delimiter character like
.I tab\^
(\f4\-f\fP option).
\f4cut\fP
can be used as a filter;
if no files are given, the standard input is used.
A file name of
\f1``\f4\-\f1''
explicitly refers to standard input.
.PP
\f4cut\fP processes supplementary code set characters,
and recognizes supplementary code set characters in the \f2char\fP
given to the \f4\-d\fP option (see below)
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
For special treatment of multibyte characters,
see the \f4\-c\f2list\f1 option below.
.PP
The meanings of the options are:
.br
.TP "\w'\-d\ char\ \ 'u"
.I list\^
A comma-separated 
list or blank-separated list of positive numbers and ranges.
Ranges have three forms.  The first is two positive integers separated
by a hyphen (\f2low-high\f1), which represents all fields from \f2low\f1
to \f2high\f1.  The second is a positive number preceded by a hyphen
(\f2-high\f1), which represents all fields from field \f21\f1 to 
\f2high\f1.  The last is a positive number followed by a hyphen
(\f2low-\f1), which represents all fields from \f2low\f1 to the last
field, inclusive.  Elements in the list can be repeated, can overlap,
and can appear in any order.
.TP
\f4\-b\fP \^\f2list\fP
Cut based on a \f2list\fP of bytes.  Each selected byte will be output
unless the \f2-n\f1 option is also specified.  Bytes specified need not
be present in the input.
.TP
\f4\-c\fP \^\f2list\fP
Cut based on a \f2list\fP of characters.  Each selected character will be
output.  Characters specified need not be present in the input.
.TP
\f4\-d\fP
The character following 
\f4\-d\f1
is the field delimiter
(\c
\f4\-f\f1
option only).
Default is
.IR tab .
Space or other characters with special meaning to the shell must be quoted.
\f2char\f1 may be a
supplementary code set character.
.TP
\f4\-f\fP\^\f2list\fP
The \f2list\fP following 
\f4\-f\f1
is a list of fields
assumed to be separated in the file by a delimiter character (see 
\f4\-d\f1
);
for example,
\f4\-f1,7\f1
copies the first and seventh field only.
Lines with no field delimiters will be passed through intact (useful
for table subheadings), unless 
\f4\-s\f1
is specified.
Fields specified need not be present in the input.
.TP
\f4\-n\f1
Do not split characters.  When specified with the \f2-b\f1 option, all
characters ending within the range are passed to the output.
.TP
\f4\-s\f1
Suppresses lines with no delimiter characters in case of
\f4\-f\f1
option.
Unless specified, lines with no delimiters will be passed through untouched.
.PP
Either the
\f4\-c\f1
or 
\f4\-f\f1
option must be specified.
.PP
Use
\f4grep\fP(1)
to make horizontal ``cuts''
(by context) through a file, or
\f4paste\fP(1)
to put files together column-wise
(that is, horizontally).
To reorder columns in a table, use
\f4cut\fP
and
\f4paste\fP.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 2.25i
\f4cut \-d: \-f1,5 /etc/passwd\f1
mapping of user IDs to names
.TP
\f4name=\(gawho am i | cut \-f1 \-d" "\(ga\f1
to set 
\f4name\f1
to current login
name.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH EXTENDED\ DESCRIPTION
X/Open CAE Specification(1994)--Commands and Utilities.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4grep\fP(1),
\f4paste\fP(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.TP 1.25i
\f4UX:cut:ERROR:line too long\f1
A line can have no more than 1023 bytes or fields,
or there is no new-line character.
.TP
\f4UX:cut:ERROR:bad list for c\|/\|f option\f1
Missing 
\f4\-c\f1
or 
\f4\-f\f1
option or incorrectly specified
.IR list\^ .
No error occurs if a line has fewer fields than the
.I list\^
calls for.
.TP
\f4UX:cut:ERROR:no fields\f1
The
.I list\^
is empty.
.TP
\f4UX:cut:ERROR:no delimiter\f1
Missing
.I char\^
on
\f4\-d\f1
option.
.TP
\f4UX:cut:ERROR:cannot handle multiple adjacent backspaces\f1
Adjacent backspaces cannot be processed correctly.
.TP
\f4UX:cut:WARNING:cannot open <\f2filename\f4>\f1
Either
.I filename\^
cannot be read or does not exist.
If multiple filenames are present, processing continues.
