'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.addbib @(#)deroff	40.8 of 1/3/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} deroff 1 "BSD Compatibility Package" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} deroff 1 "BSD Compatibility Package"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} deroff 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} deroff "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4deroff\f1 \- remove \f4nroff\f1, \f4troff\f1, \f4tbl\f1 and \f4eqn\f1 constructs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4/usr/ucb/deroff\f1
[
\f4\-w\f1
]
.I filename
\&\f4.\|.\|.\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The
\f4deroff\f1
command reads each file in sequence and removes all
\f4nroff\f1
and
\f4troff\f1
command lines, backslash constructions, macro definitions,
\f4eqn\f1
constructs (between
\f4\&.EQ\f1
and
\f4\&.EN\f1
lines or between
delimiters), and table descriptions and writes
the remainder on the standard
output.
\f4deroff\f1
follows chains of included files
\f1(\f4\&.so\f1
and
\f4\&.nx\f1
commands); if a file has already been included, a
\f4\&.so\f1
is ignored and a
\f4\&.nx\f1
terminates execution.
If no input file is
given,
\f4deroff\f1
reads from the standard input file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f4\-w\f1
Generate a word list, one word per line. A `word'
is a string of letters,
digits, and apostrophes, beginning with a letter;
apostrophes are removed.
All other characters are ignored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4eqn\fP(1),
\f4nroff\fP(1),
\f4tbl\fP(1),
\f4troff\fP(1)
.SH NOTES
\f4deroff\f1
is not a complete
\f4troff\f1
interpreter, so it can be confused by subtle constructs.
Most errors result in too much rather than too little output.
.P
\f4deroff\f1
does not work well with files that use
\f4\&.so\f1
to source in the standard macro package files.
