.TH df 1
.SH NAME
df \- report number of free disk blocks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3df\f1 [ \f3\-befhiklmnPqrtV\f1 ] [ \f3\-w\f1 fieldwidth ] \c
[ \f3\-F\f1 FStype ] [ filesystem ...]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I df
reports the number of total, used, and available disk blocks
(one disk block equals 512 bytes)
in filesystems.
The
.I filesystem
argument
is a device special file containing a
disk filesystem, a mounted NFS filesystem of the form
.IR hostname:pathname ,
or any file, directory, or special node in a mounted filesystem.
If no
.I filesystem
arguments are specified,
.I df
reports on all mounted filesystems.
.PP
The options to
.I df
are:
.TP 5
.B \-b
Causes
.I df
to report usage in 512-byte units, which is the default.
.TP
.B \-e
Causes only the device and the number of free inodes to be
printed.
.TP
.BI "\-F " FStype
Causes filesystems of types other than
.I FStype
to be skipped.
.TP
.B \-f
Normally, the
free block information is gleaned from the filesystem's superblock.
The
.B \-f
flag forces a scan of the free block list.
.TP
.B \-h
Causes
.I df
to report usage in ``human'' blocks.  Each size is converted to
kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, or terabytes and printed with a
postfix indicating the units.  Units are in powers of two, i.e., 
a megabyte is 2 to the 20th.  
This option also affects the inode style listing.
.TP
.B \-i
Reports the number and percentage of used inodes
and the number of free inodes.
.TP
.B \-k
Causes
.I df
to report usage in 1024-byte units.
.TP
.B \-l
Restricts the report to local disk filesystems only.
This option is supported only with EFS and XFS filesystems.
.TP
.B \-m
Causes
.I df
to report usage in 1048576-byte (megabyte) units.  
This option also affects the inode style listing.
.TP
.B \-n
Prints only the device name and filesystem type for each filesystem.
.TP
.B \-P
When both the 
.B \-P
and
.B \-k
options are specified, the following header line will be written:
.nf

	Filesystem 1024-blocks Used Available Capacity Mounted on

.fi
When the
.B \-P
is specified without the
.B \-k
option, the following header line will be written:
.nf

	Filesystem 512-blocks Used Available Capacity Mounted on

.fi
.TP
.B \-q
Recognized but ignored.
Provided for compatibility with previous releases.
.TP
.B \-r
For XFS filesystems, adds the realtime portion of the filesystem,
which is normally excluded.
.TP
.B \-t
Recognized but ignored.
Provided for compatibility with previous releases.
.TP
.B \-V
Causes a command line to be constructed from the defaults
and echoed.
Additional arguments are ignored.
.TP
.BI "\-w " fieldwidth
Causes the width of the first field (the
.B Filesystem
field) to be padded to that value.
This allows control of the output,
so that systems with long pathnames can still have columnar output.
In
earlier releases, this field was truncated, in an attempt to keep the
output from wrapping on an 80 column display (which often failed anyway,
except for very short mount point names).
Now it is never truncated.
.SH EXAMPLES
To report usage in the root filesystem, use either of the following:
.Ex
df /dev/root
df /
.Ee
Report on the filesystem containing the current directory:
.Ex
df .
.Ee
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/mtab
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
statfs(2),
efs(4),
xfs(4).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
If the environment variable \s-1\fBHUMAN_BLOCKS\s0\fP is set, it implies
\fB-h\fP.
.SH BUGS
Free counts may be incorrect, with or without
the
.B \-f
flag.
.SH NOTES
In previous IRIX releases, usage was reported in 1024-byte units.
.P
The interpretation of megabyte et al as 1,000,000 or 2^20 is a matter of
debate.  The current reasoning is that kbytes are 1024, so megabytes 
should be 1024*1024.
.P
The
proc
filesystem (normally mounted under
.IR /proc )
is not printed by default, but can be explicitly specified.
This filesystem consumes no actual disk space, but is an interface to
the virtual space of running processes.
The total and free blocks reported
represent the total virtual memory (real memory plus swap space)
present and the amount currently free, respectively.
.P
The
.B \-i
option applied to filesystems of type
.B nfs
reports a free inode count of 0.
Future versions of NFS will support useful inode counts.
For the
.B proc
filesystem type,
.B \-i
reports the number of active process slots in the
.I iuse
column and the number of available slots in the
.I ifree
column.
.P
For XFS filesystems, there is no way to see the space used by
the log portion of the filesystem.
.P
In earlier releases,
.I df
silently right truncated long
device names and NFS server pathnames.
.I df
now left truncates, since the left portion is more likely to be
non-unique than the right.
