'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.dircmp @(#)dircmp	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} dircmp 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} dircmp 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} dircmp 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} dircmp "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4dircmp\f1 \- directory comparison
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4dircmp\f1
[
\f4\-d\f1
] [
\f4\-s\f1
] [
\f4\-w\f2n\f1
]
\f2dir1 dir2\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4dircmp\fP
examines
.I dir1\^
and
.I dir2\^
and generates various tabulated information
about the contents of the directories.
Listings of files that are unique to each directory are generated
for all the options.
If no option is entered,
a list is output indicating whether the
file names common to both directories
have the same contents.
\f4dircmp\fP processes supplementary code
set characters in directory and file names
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
.TP
\f4\-d\f1
Compare the contents of files with the same name in
both directories and output a list telling what must
be changed in the two files to bring them into agreement.
The list format is described in
\f4diff\fP(1).
.TP
\f4\-s\f1
Suppress messages about identical files.
.TP
\f4\-w\fP\^\f2n\fP
Change the width of the output line to
.I n
columns.
The default width is 72.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4cmp\fP(1), \f4diff\fP(1)
.\"	@(#)dircmp.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
