'\"macro stdmacro
.TH DKSTAT 1
.SH NAME
\f3dkstat\f1 \- report disk I/O statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3dkstat\f1
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-L\f1]
[\f3\-f\f1 {\f3r\f1|\f3t\f1|\f3s\f1}]
[\f3\-r\f1] [\f3\-w\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2ndisks\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1] [\f3\-i\f1 \f2devspec\f1[\f3\|,\|\f1\f2devspec\f1 ...]]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2devspec\f1[\f3\|,\|\f1\f2devspec\f1 ...]]
[\f2interval\f1 [\f2repeat\f1]]
.SH "TYPICAL USAGE"
To monitor I/O rates on all disks every 5 seconds
.sp
.in +1i
.ftCW
dkstat
.in
.ft1
.PP
To continuously display a table of disks on the host "babylon",
use the following command;
.sp
.in +1i
.ftCW
dkstat \-c \-ft \-h babylon
.in
.ft1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dkstat
reports physical disk I/O statistics.
The default report shows the average physical I/O rate (requests per second, or
IOPS)
to each disk during the sample
.I interval
(default 5 seconds).
.PP
The options to 
.I dkstat
are as follows;
.PP
.TP 5
\f3\-?\f1
Output usage information.
.TP 5
\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1
Report for the host \f2host\f1, which must be running
.BR pmcd (1).
The default is to report for the local host.
.TP 5
\f3\-L\f1
Report for the local host and by-pass
.BR pmcd (1).
This option is mutually exclusive with the \f3\-h\f1 option
and is the default if
.BR pmcd (1)
is not running.
.TP
\f3\-c\f1
Invokes continuous mode, using a
.BR curses (3)
display. This is most useful with the
"sorted" (\f3\-fs\f1) and "table" (\f3\-ft\f1) display
formats.
.TP 5
\f3\-f\f1 {\f3r\f1|\f3t\f1|\f3s\f1}
Selects the report format as follows:
.RS
.TP 5
\f3\-f\f1\f3r\f1
selects ``row'' format (one column per drive).
The report is sorted on drive name across the page.
This is the default display format.
.TP 5
\f3\-f\f1\f3t\f1
selects ``table'' format (one line per controller).
The report is sorted on controller name down the page
and by drive unit number across the page.
.sp0.5v
For SCSI devices with non-zero Logical Unit Numbers (LUNs) all devices
for a single SCSI target address appear in a the same row, sorted
by LUN.
Down the page, rows are sorted by SCSI target within controller.
.TP 5
\f3\-f\f1\f3s\f1
selects ``sorted'' format (one drive per line).
The report is sorted for the most active drive, depending on the \f3\-r\f1 
and \f3\-w\f1 flags.
If neither \f3\-r\f1 or \f3\-w\f1 are given,
the report is sorted on total number of I/Os (reads plus writes).
The \f3\-n\f1 option restricts the report to the
.I ndisks
most active disks (default 22).
The \f3%Busy\f1 column in the output
is the percentage of time during the interval
that the drive was active.
The \f3MeanST\f1 column in the output
is the average service time of all requests which
completed during the interval (in units of milliseconds).
.RE
.TP 5
\f3\-r\f1
Only report reads from each drive.
The default is to sum reads and writes.
The \f3\-f\f1\f3s\f1 style report will be sorted
for the drives which perform the most read I/Os per second.
.TP
\f3\-w\f1
Only report writes to each drive.
The \f3\-f\f1\f3s\f1 style report will be sorted
for the drives which perform the most write I/Os per second.
.TP
\f3\-rw\f1
Report both reads and writes to each drive.
If neither \f3\-r\f1 or \f3\-w\f1 are given, then report
total I/Os (reads plus writes).
.TP
\f2interval\f1 [\f2repeats\f1]
Specifies the interval in seconds between successive reports
(default 5 seconds) and the number of intervals to report
(default is to repeat forever).
All statistics are averaged over the interval.
.SH "DEVICE SELECTION"
The \f3\-a\f1 flag (default) causes all drives and controllers
to be reported (depending on the report format).
This may be modified by the \f3\-i\f1 option to include only some drives
and exclude all others, or by the \f3\-x\f1 option to exclude some drives
and include all others.
.PP
The argument to the \f3\-i\f1 or \f3\-x\f1 option is a comma separated list
(without spaces before or after each comma)
of device specifiers (\f2devspec\f1).
A \f2devspec\f1 is a string of characters that might reasonably be expected
to be the prefix for the names (as report via \f3\-I\f1) of one or more
devices.
.PP
Examples;
.TP 15
\f3dks1d6l3\f1
SCSI controller 1, target 6, LUN 3.
.TP 15
\f3dks0d1\f1
SCSI controller 0, target 1, all LUNs.
.TP 15
\f3dks4\f1
All drives on SCSI controller 4.
.TP 15
\f3dks6,dks0d3\f1
All drives on SCSI controller 6
and SCSI target 3 on SCSI controller 0.
.TP
.SH FILES
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3pmcd\f1(1),
\f3sar\f1(1),
\f3sadc\f1(1),
\f3gr_top\f1(1),
\f3osview\f1(1)
and
\f3gr_osview\f1(1).
