'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.echo @(#)echo	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ECHO 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ECHO 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ECHO 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ECHO "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
echo \- echo arguments 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B echo
[ 
.B -n
] [ arg ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I echo\^
writes its arguments separated by blanks and terminated by
a new-line (except when "-n" is specified, see below) on the standard output.
It also
understands C-like escape conventions;
beware of conflicts with the shell's use of \f3\e\fP:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B \eb
backspace
.TP
.B \ec
print line without new-line
.TP
.B \ef
form-feed
.TP
.B \en
new-line
.TP
.B \er
carriage return
.TP
.B \et
tab
.TP
.B \ev
vertical tab
.TP
.B \e\e
backslash
.TP
.BI \e0 n\^
where
.I n\^
is the 8-bit character whose \s-1ASCII\s0 code is
the 1-, 2- or 3-digit octal number representing that character.
.RE
.PD
.PP
.I echo\^
has two operating modes.  By default, 
.I echo\^
operates compatibly with certain earlier versions of System V 
.I echo\^.
If the environment variable 
.B _XPG 
is defined, and has a numeric 
value greater than 0, sed operates in conformance with the
X/Open XPG4 specifications. In this mode, when 
.B -n 
is specified, it is treated as a string, like any other arguments.
In the backward compatibility mode,
when 
.B -n
is specified, it means "no new-line". The arguments will not be 
terminated by a new-line on the standard output. 
.PP
.I echo\^
is useful for producing diagnostics in command files
and for sending known data into a pipe.
.SH SEE ALSO
csh(1), sh(1).
.SH CAVEATS
When representing an 8-bit character by using the escape convention
.BI \e0 n\^,
the
.I n\^
must
.B always
be preceded by the digit zero (0).
.sp .5
For example, typing:
.B "echo \'\s-1WARNING\s+1:\e07\'"
will print the phrase
.B "\s-1WARNING\s+1:"
and sound the ``bell'' on your terminal.
The use of single (or double) quotes
(or two backslashes) is required to protect the ``\e''
that precedes the ``07''.
.sp .5
For the octal equivalents of each character,
see
ascii\^(5).
.PP
echo is often a builtin to the shells, see the shell man pages
for feature specific to each shell.  This man page documents
the executable program, not the builtin versions, although they
are similar.
