'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)printenv.1	6.4 (Berkeley) 7/24/90
.if n .pH g1.env @(#)env	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ENV 1 "User Environment Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ENV 1 "User Environment Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ENV 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ENV "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
env, printenv \- set environment for command execution, print environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B env
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \- ]
[ name=value ... ]
[ command args ]
.br
.B printenv
[ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Env\^
obtains the current
.IR environment ,
modifies it according to its arguments,
then executes the command with the modified environment.
Arguments of the form
.IB name = value
are merged into the inherited environment
before the command is executed.
.PP
If no command is specified,
the resulting environment is printed,
one name-value pair per line.
.PP
.I Printenv
prints out the names and values of the variables in the environment,
with one name/value pair per line.  If
.I name
is specified, only
its value is printed.
If 
.I name
is not defined in the environment,
.I printenv
returns exit status 1, else it returns status 0.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\f4\-i\f1
Invoke command with exactly the environment specified by the arguments;
the inherited environment will be ignored ocmpletely.
.TP
\f4\-\f1
Obsolescent form of \f4\-i\f1.
.SH SEE ALSO
csh(1), sh(1),
exec(2),
profile(4),
environ(5)
.SH BUGS
.I Env
doesn't handle commands with equal (``='') signs in their
names, for obvious reasons.
.\"	@(#)env.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
