'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.esplogger @(#)esplogger	30.2 of 12/14/98
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} esplogger 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} esplogger 1 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} esplogger 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} esplogger "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
esplogger \- System Support logger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3esplogger\f1 [\f3\-s\f1 sequence number {\f3\-f\f1 filename | \c
\f3\-m\f1 "message"} [\f3\-p\f1 priority]
         [\f3\-t\f1 time]
\f3esplogger\f1 \f3\-h\f1
\f3esplogger\f1 \f3\-V\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I esplogger\^
is a facility for the scripted tools/tasks to log the data to the SGI Embedded Support
Partner.
.I esplogger\^
serves as a communication pipe between different tasks and EventMon.
.PP
.I esplogger\^
cannot be called without an options(s). One or more of the following options
must be specified:
.PP
.TP 13
.BI \-s " sequence number\^"
option that allows to specify sequence number (in decimal or hexadecimal notation). This
option works only in conjunction with \f3\-t\f1 and \f3\-f\f1, or \f3\-m\f1 options.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename\^"
option that allows to specify a file name that contains data for logging into
SGI Embedded Support Partner framework. This option works only in conjunction
with \f3\-s\f1 option and is incompatible with \f3\-m\f1 option.
.TP
.BI \-m " message\^"
option that allows to type a message to login into SGI Embedded Support Partner
 framework. This option works only in conjunction with \f3\-s\f1 option and is
incompatible with \f3\-f\f1 option.
.TP
.BI \-p " priority\^"
option that allows to specify priority (i.e. local0.notice). See syslog(3C) for
a description of the priorities. If priority is not specified
.I esplogger\^
will use default priority "local0.info". This option must be
used in combination with \f3\-s\f1, and \f3\-f\f1, or \f3\-m\f1 options.
.TP
.BI \-t " time\^"
option that allows to specify time of the event. Time must be specified in
seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, Jan 1, 1970 (in decimal notation). If time is not
specified
.I esplogger\^
will set this option to the time it received event. This option must be used
together with \f3\-s\f1, and \f3\-f\f1, or \f3\-m\f1 options.
.TP
.BI \-h
help option. This option will print out the usage for the command to the
standard output.
.TP
.BI \-V
version option. This option will print out the
.I esplogger\^
version number.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE 1
.RS
.PD 1
.I \fesplogger\f1 \f3\-s\f1 200356 \f3\-f\f1 \c
availmon.dat
.PD
.RE
.PP
The above command sets sequence number to 200356, priority to the
"local0.info" (1030), and time to the time when esplogger received the event.
Then it reads file availmon.dat and passes the context of the file together
with the rest of the parameters to EventMon.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE 2
.RS
.PD 1
.I \fesplogger\f1 \f3\-s\f1 0x00200000 \f3\-p\f1 \c
syslog.warning \f3\-m\f1 \c
\^"Start SVP\^"
.PD
.RE
.PP
The above command sets sequence number to 0x00200000, priority to syslog.warning
(324), and time to the time when esplogger received the event. Then it passes
this information along with the message to EventMon.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.RS
.PD 1
.B eventmon(1)
.PD
.RE
