'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.espquery @(#)espquery	30.2 of 04/03/96
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} espquery 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} espquery 1 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} espquery 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} espquery "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
espquery \- Database query for Embedded Support Partner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3espquery\f1 [\f3\-th\f1] [\f3\-u\f1 username] [\f3\-p\f1 password] [\f3\-n\f1 hostname] \c
\f3\-s\f1 sqlstring dbname
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I espquery\^
is a command that is designed to perform limited set of operations on the
database in the Embedded Support Partner The command is provided mostly for use by
tools that are script in nature, yet need an interface to the SSDB. The
tools would have to have intimate knowledge of the schema in the SSDB and
the rights to access the database. The operations on the on the SSDB are
limited to:
.PP
.B SELECT
.br
.B DESCRIBE
.br
.B SHOW
.PP
The 
.I dbname\^
is a mandatory argument and must be at the end after the option list.
.PP
The
.I espquery\^
command has the following options:
.PP
.TP 13
.BI \-t
Option to disable the printing of headers. With this option, data is displayed
without any header information.
.TP
.BI \-h
Help command. This option will print out the usage for the command.
.TP
.BI \-u " username"
The username for accessing the data in the SSDB. The SSDB will have set users
that have privileges to access the data. This option is mandatory.
.TP
.BI \-p " password"
The password for the account to access data in the SSDB.
.TP
.BI \-n  " hostname"
Option to connect to a different host that is running the SSDB. By default
the hostname is set to localhost. This option is mandatory.
.TP
.BI \-s " sqlstring"
The SQL query that is to be performed on the database. The sqlstring must
be enclosed in double quotes ("").
.TP
.TP
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE 1
.RS
.PD 1
.I \f3espquery\f1 \f3\-u\f1 sss \f3\-p\f1 \c
sss \f3\-s\f1 \^"select * from event\^" ssdatabase
.PD
.RE
.PP
The above command connects to the database called ssdatabase on the local
system using the account sss password sss. A select of all records from 
the table called event is performed.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE 2
.RS
.PD 1
.I \f3espquery\f1 \f3\-n\f1 neetu.csd.sgi.com \f3\-u\f1 \c
sss \f3\-p\f1 sss \f3\-s\f1 \^"select * \c
from event\^" ssdatabase
.PD
.RE
.PP
The above connects to the database called ssdatabase on the host called
neetu.csd.sgi.com using the account sss password sss. A select of all
records from the table called event is performed.
