.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} expand 1 "User Environment Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.tr ~
.SH NAME
expand \- convert tabs to spaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3expand\f1 [ \-t tablist ] [ file ] 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2expand\fP utility writes files or the standard input to the 
standard output with tab characters replaced with one or more space
characters needed to pad to the next tab stop. Any backspace 
characters will be copied to the output and cause the column position
count for tab stop calculations to be decremented; the column position 
count will not be decremented below zero.
.SH OPTIONS
.I expand
may be used with the following options:
.TP
.B \-t \f2tablist\fP
Specify the tab stops. The argument tablist must consist of a single
positive decimal integer or multiple positive decimal integers, separated
by blank characters or commas, in ascending order. If a single number is given,
tabs will be set \f2tablist\fP column positions apart instead of the default 8.
If multiple numbers are given, the tabs will be set at those specific column 
positions.

Each tab-stop position \f2N\fP must be an integer value greater than zero, and
the list must be in strictly ascending order. This is taken to mean that, from
the start of a line of output, tabbing to position \f2N\fP causes the next character
be in the \f2(N+1)th\fP column position on that line.

In the event of \f2expand\fP having to process a tab character at a position
beyond the last of those specified in a multiple tab-stop list, the tab character
is replaced by a single space character in the output.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:

\-t \f2file\fP	The pathname of a text file to be used as input.
.SH STDIN
See 
.B INPUT FILES.
.SH INPUT FILES
Input files must be text files.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables affect the execution of 
.I expand:

.I LANG
	Provide a default value for the internationalisation variables
that are unset or null. If 
.I LANG
is unset or null, the corresponding value from the implementation-specific
default locale will be used. If any of the internationalisation variables 
contains an invalid setting, the utility will behave as if none of the variables
had been defined.

.I LC_ALL
	If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all
the other internationalisation variables.

.I LC_CTYPE
	Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of text 
data as characters (for example, single- as opposed to multi-byte characters in 
arguments and input files), the processing of tab and space characters, and for 
the determination of the width in column positions each character would occupy
on a constant-width font output device.

.I LC_MESSAGES
	Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents
of diagnostic messages written to standard error.

.SH ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
Default.

.SH STDOUT
The standard output is equivalent to the input files with tab characters converted 
into the appropriate number of space characters.

.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.

.SH OUTPUT FILES
None.

.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
None.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:

0 Successful completion.

>0 An error occured.

.SH CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
The \f2expand\fP utility will terminate with an error message and non-zero exit
status upon encountering difficulties accessing one of the \f2file\fP operands.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
\f2tabs\fP, \f2unexpand\fP

.SH CHANGE HISTORY
First released in Issue 4.
