'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.fg @(#)fg	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} fg 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} fg 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fg 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} fg "" "" "\&"
.ds OK [\|
.ds CK \|]
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3fg\f1 - run jobs in the foreground
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3fg\f1 [\f3job_id\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If job control is enabled (see the description of set -m), the \f3fg\f1
utility will move a background job from the current environment
into the foreground.
.PP
Using \f3fg\f1 to place a job into the foreground will remove its process ID
from the list of those "known in the current shell execution
environment.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.TP 8
job_id
Specify the job to be run as a foreground job. If no \f3job_id\f1
operand is given, the \f3job_id\f1 for the job that was most recently
suspended, placed in the background or run as a background job will be
used. The format of \f3job_id\f1 is described in the entry for job control
job ID in the \f3sh(1)\f1 manpage.
.SH STDOUT
The \f3fg\f1 utility writes the command line of the job to standard output in
the following format:
.IP
"%s\\n", <command>
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 4
0
Successful completion.
.TP 4
>0
An error occurred.
.SH CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
If job control is disabled, the \f3fg\f1 utility will exit with an error and
no job will be placed in the foreground.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
The \f3fg\f1 utility will not work as expected when it is operating in its
own utility execution environment because that environment will have no
applicable jobs to manipulate. See the APPLICATION USAGE section for
\f3bg\f1. For this reason, \f3fg\f1 is generally implemented as a shell regular
built-in.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3
bg(1), 
kill(1), 
jobs(1), 
sh(1), 
wait(1).
\f1
