'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.file $Revision: 1.9 $
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} file 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} file 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} file 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} file "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4file\f1 \- determine file type
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4file\f1
[\f4\-h\f1]
[\f4\-m\f1
\f2mfile\f1]
[\f4\-f\f1
\f2ffile\f1]
\f2arg\f1 . . .
.br
\f4file\f1
[\f4\-h\f1]
[\f4\-m\f1
\f2mfile\f1]
\f4\-f\f1
\f2ffile\f1
.br
\f4file\f1
\f4\-c\f1
[\f4\-m\f1
\f2mfile\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4file\fP
performs a series of tests on each file supplied by \f2arg\fP
and, optionally, on each file supplied in \f2ffile\fP
in an attempt to classify it.
If \f2arg\f1 appears to be a text file,
\f4file\fP
examines the first 512 bytes
and tries to guess its programming language.
If \f2arg\f1 is an executable
\f4a.out\f1,
\f4file\fP
prints the version stamp, provided it is greater than 0.
For \s-1COFF\s+1 executables, the version stamp will give the version
of compilers used to generate the executable.
For \s-1ELF\s+1 executables, the version stamp gives the version of
ELF to which the file conforms.
If \f2arg\f1 is a symbolic link, by default the link is followed
and \f4file\f1 tests the file that the symbolic link references.
.PP
.TP 1.2i
\f4\-c\f1
Check the magic file for format errors.
For reasons of efficiency, this validation is normally not carried out.
.TP
\f4\-f\f2 ffile\f1
\f2ffile\fP
contains the names
of the files to be examined.
.TP
\f4\-h\f1
Do not follow symbolic links.
.TP
\f4\-m\f2 mfile\f1
Use \f2mfile\f1 as an alternate magic file,
instead of \f4/etc/magic\f1.
.PP
\f4file\fP
uses
\f4/etc/magic\f1
to identify files that have a magic number.
A magic number is a numeric or string constant that indicates the file type.
Commentary at the beginning of
\f4/etc/magic\f1
explains its format.
.PP
\f4file\fP classifies files containing
supplementary code set characters
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
\f4file\fP reads each argument and
can distinguish data files, program text files,
shell scripts, and executable files as follows:
.sp .5
.TS
center,tab(:);
lf lf
l l.
Files:Classification
_
.sp .5
Data files containing:data
supplementary characters:\&
.sp .75
Shell scripts containing:command text
supplementary characters:\&
.sp .75
Language program text files:\f2xxx\fP text
containing literals or:\&
comments using supplementary:\&
characters:\&
.sp .75
Executable files:executable
.TE
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/etc/magic\f1
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore\f1
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxsgicore\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4filehdr\^\f1(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the
\f4\-h\fP
option is specified and
\f2arg\fP
is a symbolic link,
\f4file\f1 prints the error message:
.PP
.RS
.ft 4
UX:file:ERROR:symbolic link to \f2arg\fP
.ft 1
.RE
.Ee
