.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} find 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
find \- find files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3find\f1 path-name-list [ expression ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I find
recursively descends
the directory hierarchy for
each pathname in the
.I path-name-list
(that is, one or more pathnames)
seeking files that match a boolean
.I expression
written in the primaries given below.
If the expression does not
contain at least one of
.BR \-print ,
.BR \-ok ,
or
.BR \-exec ,
including the case of a
null expression, a
.B \-print
is implicit.
In the descriptions, the argument
.I n
is used as a decimal integer
where
.BI + n
means more than
.IR n ,
.BI \- n
means less than
.IR n ,
and
.I n
means exactly
.IR n .
Valid expressions are:
.TP 17
.BI \-name " file"
True if
.I file
matches the current filename.
Normal shell
argument syntax can be used if escaped (watch out for
.BR [ ", "
.BR ? ", and "
.BR \(** ).
.TP
.BR \-perm " [" \- ]\f2mode\f1
True if the file permission flags
exactly
match the file mode given by
.I mode
which can be an octal number or a symbolic expression of the form used
in
.IR chmod (1)).
If
.I mode
is prefixed by a minus sign,
only the bits that are set in
.I mode
are compared with the file permission flags,
and the expression evaluates true if they match.
.TP
.BI \-type " c"
True if the type of the file is
.IR c ,
where
.I c
is
.BR b ,
.BR c ,
.BR d ,
.BR l ,
.BR p ,
.BR f ,
or
.B s
for
block special file, character special file,
directory, symbolic link, fifo (a.k.a named pipe), plain file, or
socket respectively.
.TP
.BI \-links " n"
True if the file has
.I n
links.
.TP
.BI \-user " uname"
True if the file belongs to the user
.IR uname .
If
.I uname
is numeric and does not appear as a login name in the
.I /etc/passwd
file, it is taken as a user ID.
.TP
\f3\-nouser\f1
True if the file belongs to a user not in the
\f2/etc/passwd\f1
file.
.TP
.BI \-group " gname"
True if the file belongs to the group
.IR gname .
If
.I gname
is numeric and does not appear in the
.I /etc/group
file, it is taken as a group ID.
.TP
\f3\-nogroup\f1
True if the file belongs to a group not in the
\f2/etc/group\f1
file.
.TP
.BR \-size " [\f3+\-\fP]n[" c ]
True if the file is
.I n
blocks long (512 bytes per block).
If
.I n
is followed by a
.BR c ,
the size is in characters.
.TP
.BI \-inum " n"
True if
.I n
is the inode number of the file.
.TP
.BI \-atime " [\f3+\-\fP]n"
True if the file was accessed
.I n
days ago.
The definition of
.I n
days ago is any time within the interval beginning exactly \f2n\f1*24 hours
ago and ending exactly (\f2n\f1\-1)*24 hours ago.
The \f3+\f1 and \f3\-\f1 prefixes
signify more or less than \f2n\f1 days ago, respectively,
thus \f3+\f1\f2n\f1 means more
than \f2n\f1*24 hours ago, and \f3\-\f1\f2n\f1 means less than
\f2n\f1*24 hours ago.
(See
.IR stat (2)
for a description of which file operations change the access time of a
file.)
The access time of directories in
.I path-name-list
is changed by
.I find
itself.
.TP
.BI \-mtime " [\f3+\-\fP]n"
True if the file was modified
.I n
days ago.
See
.B \-atime
for definition of "\f2n\f1 days ago".
(See
.IR stat (2)
for a description of which file operations change the modification time of a
file.)
.TP
.BI \-ctime " [\f3+\-\fP]n"
True if the file was changed
.I n
days ago.
See
.B \-atime
for definition of "\f2n\f1 days ago".
(See
.IR stat (2)
for a description of which file operations change the change time of a
file.)
.TP
.BI \-exec " cmd"
True if the executed
.I cmd
returns
a zero value as exit status.
The end of
.I cmd
must be punctuated by an escaped
semicolon.
A command argument
.B {}
is replaced by the
current pathname.
.TP
.BI \-ok " cmd"
Like
.B \-exec
except that the generated command line is printed
with a question mark first,
and is executed only if the user responds
by typing
.BR y .
.TP
.B \-print
Always true;
causes the current pathname to be printed.
.TP
.BI \-cpio " device"
Always true;
write the current file on
.I device
in
.IR cpio (1)
format (5120-byte records).
\f3find \-cpio\f1 issues a warning if it encounters a file larger than
two gigabytes.
\f2cpio\f1(1) must be used to archive files of this size.
.TP
.BI \-ncpio " device"
same as \f4-cpio\fP option except archive is written in the
\f4cpio -c\fP format.
.TP
.BI \-newer " file"
True if
the current file has been modified more recently than the argument
.I file
(see
.IR stat (2)
for a description of which file operations change the modification time of a
file).
.TP
.BI \-anewer " file"
True if current file has been accessed more recently than the
argument
.I file
(see
.IR stat (2)
for a description of which file operations change the access time of a
file).
.TP
.BI \-cnewer " file"
True if current file has been changed more recently
than the argument
.I file
(see
.IR stat (2)
for a description of which file operations change the change time of a
file).
.TP
.B \-depth
Always true;
causes descent of the directory hierarchy to be done
so that all entries in a directory are
acted on
before the directory itself.
This can be useful when
.I find
is used with
.IR cpio (1)
to transfer files
that are contained in directories without
write permission.
.TP
.B \-prune
Always true;
do not examine any directories or files in the directory structure
below the \f2pattern\fP just matched.
If the current pathname is a directory,
.I find
does not descend into that directory, provided
.B \-depth
is not also used.
.TP
.B \-mount
Always true;
restricts the search to the filesystem containing the current
element of the
.IR path-name-list .
.TP
\f3\-fstype \f2type\f1
True if the filesystem to which the file belongs is of type
.I type\f1.
.TP
.B \-local
True if the file physically resides on the local system;
causes the search not to descend into remotely mounted filesystems.
.TP
.B \-follow
Always true; causes the underlying file of a symbolic link
to be checked rather than the symbolic link itself.
.TP
.BI \-label " label"
True if the file label and
.IR label
satisfy the
.IR mac_equal
label equality relationship.
See
.IR dominance\| (5).
.TP
.BI \-xlabel " label"
True if the file label is exactly identical to
.IR label .
See
.IR dominance\| (5).
.TP
.BI \-dominates " label"
True if the file label dominates
.IR label .
See
.IR dominance\| (5).
.TP
.BI \-dominated " label"
True if the file label is dominated by
.IR label .
See
.IR dominance\| (5).
.TP
\f3\e(\f1 \f2expression\f1 \f3\e)\f1
True if the parenthesized expression is true
(parentheses are special to the shell and must be escaped).
.PP
The primaries can be combined using the following operators
(in order of decreasing precedence):
.IP \(bu 3
The negation of a primary
(\f3!\f1 is the unary
.B not
operator).
.IP \(bu 3
Concatenation of primaries
(the
.B and
operation
is implied by the juxtaposition of two primaries).
.IP \(bu 3
Alternation of primaries
.RB "(" \-o " is the"
.B or
operator).
.SH EXAMPLES
To remove all files
named \f2a.out\fP or \f2*.o\fP that
have not been accessed for a week:
.Ex
\f4find / \\( \-name a.out \-o \-name \(fm\(**.o\(fm \\) \c
\-atime +7 \-exec rm {} \\;\f1
.Ee
To display all character special devices on the root filesystem
except those under any \f2dev\fP directory:
.Ex
\f4find / \-mount \\( \-type d \-name dev \-prune \\) \-o \-type c \-print\f1
.Ee
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 14
/etc/passwd
UID information supplier
.TP
/etc/group
GID information supplier
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(1),
cpio(1),
sh(1),
test(1),
stat(2),
umask(2),
efs(4),
xfs(4),
dominance(5).
.SH BUGS
.B "find / \-depth"
always fails with the message:
.Ex
find:  stat failed:  : No such file or directory
.Ee
\f2find\fP relies on a completely correct directory hierarchy for
its search.
In particular, if a directory's '..' is missing or incorrect,
\f2find\fP fails
at that point and issue some number of these messages:
.Ex
stat failed:
.Ee
\f3\-depth\fP and \f3\-prune\fP do not work together well.
