'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)finger.1	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/10/86
.\"
.TH FINGER 1 "May 10, 1986"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
finger \- user information lookup program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B finger
.RB [ \-bfhilmpqsw ]
.RI [ name ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Finger
is used to find out about people.
It searches for the local
.I /etc/passwd
file and the NIS for matching account names and
first or last names.
.I Finger
displays, if known, the name of the person associated with each account,
mail alias, and home and office telephone numbers.
If there is an account on the local machine, the home
directory and login shell, and any plan which the person has placed in
the file
.I \&.plan
in their home directory, and the project on which they are working from
the file
.I \&.project
also in the home directory.
.PP
.I Finger
may be used to lookup users on a remote machine by specifying their names
using
.IR user @ host .
.PP
If invoked without
.I name
arguments,
.I finger
lists information about all users currently logged in, using a short
output format.
.PP
.I Finger
options include:
.TP
.B \-b
Force brief output format.
.TP
.B \-f
Suppress printing of the
.I \&.project
files
.TP
.B \-h
Suppress column headers if invoked without arguments.
.TP
.B \-i
Display idle time using quick output format.
.TP
.B \-l
Force long (default) output format.
.TP
.B \-m
Match arguments only on user name.
.TP
.B \-p
Suppress printing of the
.I \&.plan
files
.TP
.B \-q
Force quick output format.
.TP
.B \-s
Force short output format.
.TP
.B \-w
Force narrow output format.
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/etc/passwd	\- users names, offices, ...
.br
~/.plan	plans
.br
~/.project	projects
.br
/var/adm/lastlog \- directory for lastlogin times, one file per user
.SH "SEE ALSO"
who(1),
ypchpass(1)
.SH BUGS
Only the first line of the
.I .project
file is printed.
.PP
There is no way to pass arguments to the remote machine as
.I finger
uses an internet standard port.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
