'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.fmtmsg @(#)fmtmsg	41.1 of 5/28/91
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} fmtmsg 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} fmtmsg 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fmtmsg 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fmtmsg "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4fmtmsg\f1 \- display a message on \f4stderr\f1 or system console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\f4fmtmsg\f1
[\f4\-c\f2 class\f1]
[\f4\-u\f2 subclass\f1]
[\f4\-l\f2 label\f1]
[\f4\-s\f2 severity\f1]
[\f4\-t\f2 tag\f1]
[\f4\-a\f2 action\f1] \f2 text
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Based on a message's classification component,
\f4fmtmsg\f1 either writes a formatted message
to \f4stderr\f1 or
writes a formatted message to the console.
.PP
A formatted message consists of up to five standard
components as defined below.
The classification and subclass components are not displayed
as part of the standard message, but rather define the source of the
message and direct the display of the formatted message.
The valid options are:
.TP 12
\f4\-c \f2class\f1\f1
Describes the source of the message.
Valid keywords are:
.PP
.RS 16
.PD 0
.TP 10
\f4hard\f1
The source of the condition is hardware.
.TP
\f4soft\f1
The source of the condition is software.
.TP
\f4firm\f1
The source of the condition is firmware.
.PD
.RE
.TP 12
\f4\-u \f2subclass\f1\f1
A list of keywords (separated by commas)
that further defines the message and directs the display of the message.
Valid keywords are:
.P
.RS 16
.PD 0
.TP 10
\f4appl\f1
The condition originated in an application.
This keyword should not be used in combination with either
\f4util\f1 or \f4opsys\f1.
.TP
\f4util\f1
The condition originated in a utility.
This keyword should not be used in combination with either
\f4appl\f1 or \f4opsys\f1.
.TP
\f4opsys\f1
The message originated in the kernel.
This keyword should not be used in combination with either
\f4appl\f1 or \f4util\f1.
.TP
\f4recov\f1
The application will recover from the
condition.
This keyword should not be used in combination with
\f4nrecov\f1.
.TP
\f4nrecov\f1
The application will not recover from the condition.
This keyword should not be used in combination with
\f4recov\f1.
.TP
\f4print\f1
Print the message to the standard error stream \f4stderr\f1.
.TP
\f4console\f1
Write the message to the system console.
\f4print\f1, \f4console\fP, or both may be used.
.RE
.PD
.TP 12
\f4\-l \f2label\f1\f1
Identifies the source of the message.
.TP
\f4\-s \f2severity\f1\f1
Indicates the seriousness of the error.
The keywords and definitions of the
standard levels of \f2severity\f1 are:
.P
.RS 16
.PD 0
.TP 10
\f4halt\f1
The application has encountered a severe fault and is halting.
.TP
\f4error\f1
The application has detected a fault.
.TP
\f4warn\f1
The application has detected a condition that is out of the ordinary and
might be a problem.
.TP
\f4info\f1
The application is providing information about a condition that is not in
error.
.RE
.PD
.TP 12
\f4\-t \f2tag\f1\f1
The string containing an identifier for the message.
.TP
\f4\-a \f2action\f1\f1
A text string describing the first step in the error recovery process.
This string must be written so that the entire \f2action\f1
argument is interpreted as a single argument.
\f4fmtmsg\f1 precedes each action string with the
\f4TO FIX:\f1 prefix.
.TP
\f2text\f1
A text string describing the condition.
Must be written so that the entire \f2text\f1
argument is interpreted as a single argument.
.P
The environment variables \f4MSGVERB\f1 and
\f4SEV_LEVEL\f1 control the behavior of \f4fmtmsg\f1.
\f4MSGVERB\f1 is set by the administrator in the
\f4/etc/profile\f1 for the system.
Users can override the value of \f4MSGVERB\f1 set by the system
by resetting \f4MSGVERB\f1
in their own \f4.profile\f1 files or by changing the value
in their current shell session.
\f4SEV_LEVEL\f1 can be used in shell scripts.
.P
\f4MSGVERB\f1 tells \f4fmtmsg\f1 which message
components to select when writing messages
to \f4stderr\f1.
The value of \f4MSGVERB\f1 is a
colon separated list of optional keywords.
\f4MSGVERB\f1 can be
set as follows:
.P
.RS 6
.nf
\f4MSGVERB=\f1[\f2keyword\f1[\f4:\f2keyword\f1[\f4:\f1. . .]]]
\f4export MSGVERB\f1
.fi
.RE
.P
Valid \f2keywords\f1 are:
\f4label\f1,
\f4severity\f1, \f4text\f1, \f4action\f1, and \f4tag\f1.
If \f4MSGVERB\f1
contains a keyword for a component and the
component's value is not the component's null value,
\f4fmtmsg\f1 includes that component in the message when
writing the message to \f4stderr\f1.
If \f4MSGVERB\f1 does not include a keyword for a
message component, that component is not included in the
display of the message.
The keywords may appear in any order.
If \f4MSGVERB\f1 is not defined, if its value is the
null string, if its value is not of the correct format,
or if it contains keywords other than the valid ones listed
above, \f4fmtmsg\f1 selects all components.
.P
\f4MSGVERB\f1 affects only which message components are selected
for display.
All message components are included in console messages.
.PP
\f4SEV_LEVEL\f1 defines severity levels and associates
print strings with them for use by \f4fmtmsg\f1.
The standard severity levels shown below cannot be modified.
Additional severity levels can be defined, redefined, and removed.
.P
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
\f40\f1
(no severity is used)
.TP
\f41
HALT
.TP
2
ERROR
.TP
3
WARNING
.TP
4
INFO\f1
.RE
.PD
.br
.ne 1.5i
.PP
\f4SEV_LEVEL\f1 is set as follows:
.PP
.RS
\f4SEV_LEVEL=\f1[\f2description\f1[\f4:\f2description\f1[\f4:\f1...]]]
.br
\f4export SEV_LEVEL\f1
.RE
.P
\f2description\f1 is a comma-separated list
containing three fields:
.P
.RS
\f2description\f4=\f2severity_keyword\f4,\f2level\f4,\f2printstring\f1
.RE
.P
.I severity_keyword
is a character string used as the keyword
with the \f4\-s\f1 \f2severity\f1 option to \f4fmtmsg\f1.
.P
.I level
is a character string that evaluates to a positive integer
(other than \f40\f1, \f41\f1, \f42\f1, \f43\f1, or \f44\f1,
which are reserved for the standard severity levels).
If the keyword \f2severity_keyword\f1 is used,
\f2level\f1 is the severity value passed on to \f4fmtmsg\f1(3C).
.P
.I printstring
is the character string used by \f4fmtmsg\f1 in the
standard message format whenever the severity value
\f2level\f1 is used.
.PP
If \f4SEV_LEVEL\f1 is not defined, or if its value is null,
no severity levels other than the defaults are available.
If a \f2description\f1 in
the colon separated list is not a comma separated list
containing three fields,
or if the second field of a comma separated list
does not evaluate to a positive integer,
that \f2description\f1 in the colon separated list is ignored.
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The exit codes for \f4fmtmsg\f1 are the following:
.RS
.TP
\f40\f1
All the requested functions were executed successfully.
.TP
\f41\f1
The command contains a syntax error, an invalid option,
or an invalid argument to an option.
.TP
\f42\f1
The function executed with partial success, however
the message was not displayed on \f4stderr\f1.
.TP
\f44\f1
The function executed with partial success, however the message
was not displayed on the system console.
.TP
\f432\f1
No requested functions were executed successfully.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1:
The following example of \f4fmtmsg\f1
produces a complete message in the standard message format
and displays it to the standard error stream:
.PP
.RS
\f4fmtmsg
\-c soft
\-u recov,print,appl
\-l UX:cat
\-s error -t UX:cat:001
\-a "refer to manual" "invalid syntax"\fP
.RE
.PP
produces:
.P
.RS
.nf
\f5UX:cat: ERROR: invalid syntax
TO FIX: refer to manual   UX:cat:138\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Example 2:
When the environment variable \f4MSGVERB\f1 is set as follows:
.PP
.RS
\f4MSGVERB=severity:text:action\fP
.RE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.PP
and Example 1 is used, \f4fmtmsg\f1 produces:
.P
.RS
\f5ERROR: invalid syntax
.br
TO FIX: refer to manual\fP
.RE
.PP
Example 3:
When the environment variable \f4SEV_LEVEL\f1 is set as follows:
.PP
.RS
\f4SEV_LEVEL=note,5,NOTE\fP
.RE
.PP
the following \f4fmtmsg\f1 command:
.PP
.RS
\f4fmtmsg
\-c soft
\-u print
\-l UX:cat
\-s note
\-a "refer to manual" "invalid syntax"\fP
.RE
.PP
produces:
.P
.RS
\f5UX:cat: NOTE: invalid syntax
.br
TO FIX: refer to manual\fP
.RE
.PP
and displays the message on \f4stderr\f1.
.SH NOTES
A slightly different standard error message format
and a new developer interface, \f(CWpfmt\fP,
is being introduced as the replacement
for \f(CWfmtmsg\fP.
A similar interface, \f(CWlfmt\fP, is also being
introduced for producing a standard format message
and forwarding messages to the console and/or
to the system message logging and monitoring facilities.
\f(CWfmtmsg\fP will be removed at a future time.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4addseverity\fP(3C), \f4fmtmsg\fP(3C)
