'\"macro stdmacro
.\"********************************************************************
.\"*        Copyright (C) 1994, Silicon Graphics, Incorporated.       *
.\"*                   All Rights Reserved                            *
.\"********************************************************************
.TH getabi 1
.SH NAME
getabi \- determine which ABI to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getabi
[size] <ignore|preserve|remove|add> [<args>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I getabi
is used to determine whether to use the 32-bit ABI 
.I (abi32)
or the 64-bit ABI
.I (abi64).
It returns the ABI enumeration values as defined in
.I /usr/include/getabi.h,
and writes the new
.I args
list on standard output.
.PP
First it checks the 
.I args
for "-32" or "-64".
If neither of these is given, then it checks the 
.I args 
for a "-mips[1-4]" option.
Mips 1 and 2 imply 
.I abi32
while mips 3 and 4 imply
.I abi64.
If none of the 
.I args 
options specify the abi,
then we check the 
.I SGI_ABI
environment variable, which can be set to either
"-32" or "-64".
If 
.I SGI_ABI
is not in the environment, then we check what kernel is installed.
If we are running on a system that has the 64-bit kernel,
then we default to 
.I abi64;
else we default to 
.I abi32.
.PP
The optional
.I size
argument says to return the ABI for the generic size
.I (abi32
or
.I abi64),
rather than the specific ABI
.I (abio32
or
.I abi64).
.PP
The
.I ignore
argument says to ignore the 
.I args 
list when determining the ABI; 
the 
.I preserve
argument says to preserve the 
.I args
list, while the
.I remove
and
.I add
arguments respectively remove and add the ABI value from the
.I args
list.
.SH EXAMPLES
A 
.B csh
example is as follows:
.RS
.nf
set st = `getabi remove -32 -keep t.c`
# echo abi value
echo $status
# echo new args list
echo $st
.fi
.RE
.PP
A
.B sh
example is as follows:
.RS
.nf
args=`getabi size add foo -a t.c`
# echo abi value
echo $?
# echo new args list
echo $args
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4getabi\fP(3c)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4getabi\fP
prints an error message on the standard error
and returns 
.I noabi
when it encounters an error.
.\"	@(#)getabi.1	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
