'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.gettxt @(#)gettxt	41.12 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} gettxt 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} gettxt 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} gettxt 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} gettxt "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4gettxt\f1 \- retrieve a text string from a message database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4gettxt\f1
\f2msgfile\f4:\f2msgnum\f4 [\f2dflt_msg\f4]\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4gettxt\fP
retrieves a text string from a message file in the directory
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES\f1.
The directory name
\f2locale\fP
corresponds to the language in which the text strings are written;
see
\f4setlocale\fP(3C) and \f4environ\f1(5).
.PP
.TP 10
\f2msgfile\fP
Name of the file
from which
to retrieve
\f2msgnum\fP.
The name
can be up to 14 characters in length,
but may not contain either \\\|0 (\f4NULL\f1)
or the
characters
\f4/\f1
(slash) or
\f4:\f1
(colon).
.TP 10
\f2msgnum\fP
Sequence number of the string to retrieve from
\f2msgfile\fP.
The strings in
\f2msgfile\fP
are numbered sequentially from
1
to 
\f2n\fP,
where
\f2n\fP
is the number of strings in the file.
.TP 10
\f2dflt_msg\fP
Default string to be displayed if
\f4gettxt\f1 fails to retrieve
\f2msgnum\fP
from
\f2msgfile\fP.
Nongraphic characters must be represented
as alphabetic escape sequences.
.PP
The text string to be retrieved is in the file
\f2msgfile\fP,
created by the
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1)
utility and installed under the directory
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES\f1.
The directory searched is specified by the environment variable
\f4LC_MESSAGES\f1.
If
\f4LC_MESSAGES\f1
is not set,
the environment variable
\f4LANG\f1
will be used.
If
\f4LANG\f1
is not set,
the files containing the strings are
under the directory
\f4/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES\f1.
.PP
If
\f4gettxt\fP
fails to retrieve a message in the requested language,
it will try to retrieve the same message from 
\f4/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/\f2msgfile\f1.
If this also fails, and if
\f2dflt_msg\fP
is present and non-empty,
then it will display the value of
\f2dflt_msg\fP;
if
\f2dflt_msg\fP
is not present or is empty, then
it will display the string
\f4Message not found!!\en\f1.
If the environment variables
\f4LANG\f1
or
\f4LC_MESSAGES\f1
have not been set to
other than their default values,
.sp .5
.RS
\f4gettxt UX:10 "hello world\en"\fP
.RE
.sp .5
will try to retrieve the 10th message from
\f4/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/UX\fP.
If the retrieval fails,
the message
\f4hello world\f1,
followed by a newline, will be displayed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/\(**\f1
default message files created by \f4mkmsgs\fP(1)
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/\(**\f1
language-specific message files created by \f4mkmsgs\fP(1)
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore.abi\f1
language-specific message file for \f4gettxt\f1
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4exstr\fP(1),
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1),
\f4srchtxt\fP(1),
\f4gettxt\fP(3C), \f4setlocale\fP(3C)
.Ee
