.\" 									  
.\"  		 Copyright (C) 1989, Silicon Graphics, Inc.		  
.\" 									  
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs  contain  
.\"   unpublished  proprietary  information of Silicon Graphics, Inc., and  
.\"   are protected by Federal copyright law.  They  may  not be disclosed  
.\"   to  third  parties  or copied or duplicated in any form, in whole or  
.\"   in part, without the prior written consent of Silicon Graphics, Inc.  
.\" 									  
.\"
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH GR_TOP 1 local "Silicon Graphics, Inc."
.SH NAME
gr_top \- display processes having highest CPU usage in a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gr_top
.RB [ " \-i" " interval ]"
.RB [ " \-n" " lines ]"
.RB [ " \-B" " bgcolor ]"
.RB [ " \-F" " fgcolor ]"
.RB [ " \-T" " titlecolor ]"
.RB [ " \-p" " points ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gr_top
displays a sorted list of processes which are using some
portion of the available CPU cycles on a machine.
The display is updated periodically as specified by \f2interval\fP.
.PP
This version of
.B gr_top
is a perl script built on top of
.B top(1)
and
.B xwsh(1G)
which closely (although not perfectly) emulates the previous SGI 
.B gr_top.
For details on the system and process data that is displayed
within the
.B gr_top
window, see the
.B top(1)
man page. The version of
.B top
that is used by this
.B gr_top
is a much newer and enhanced version, based on a recent (3.4)
.B top
release on the net.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP 10
.BI \-i " interval"
This option sets the update interval in seconds; by default this is 5 seconds.
.TP 10
.BI \-n " lines"
This option sets the number of processes that can be displayed at once,
and thus indirectly determines the window size.
.TP 10
.BI \-B " color"
This option sets the background color which will be used for the window.
The \f2color\f1 is an Xwindow color specification (see
.B showrgb(1)
for a list of legal colors.
.TP 10
.BI \-F " color"
This option sets the foreground color which will be used for the window.
The \f2color\f1 is an Xwindow color specification (see
.B showrgb(1)
for a list of legal colors.
.TP 10
.BI \-T " color"
This option sets the
.B top
title bar color.  The \f2color\f1 is an Xwindow color specification (see
.B showrgb(1)
for a list of legal colors.
.TP 10
.BI \-p " points"
This option sets the pointsize of the text used in the window, and indirectly
controls the window size along with the number of lines specified.
.SH FILES
/proc/pinfo, /dev/kmem
.SH "SEE ALSO"
top(1), osview(1), gr_osview(1), ps(1).
