'\"!tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH GRELNOTES 1
.SH NAME
grelnotes \- graphical on-line release notes viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ta \w'\f3grelnotes\fP 'u
\f3grelnotes\fP [ X toolkitoption... ] [\f3-rpath\fP path]
	[product] [chapter]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I grelnotes
provides a graphical interface for viewing the on-line release notes.
.PP
For each software product installed on the workstation there is a set of on-line release notes. Each set of release notes contains a number of chapters providing important information about the product. \f2grelnotes\fP makes it possible
to quickly locate and browse these release notes.
.PP
If
.I grelnotes
is executed with no arguments, it will come up displaying the release notes for the "IRIX" software product. The "IRIX" product is the basic software included on the workstation (eg. unix and utilities). If these release notes are not installed, the release notes for the product "eoe" will be displayed and if these are not present, the first set of release notes found will be displayed.
.PP
If
.I product
is specified, the program will come up displaying the first chapter of the release notes for that product. If
.I chapter
is specified in addition to 
.I product
the program will come up displaying this chapter of the product's release notes.
.SH VIEWING RELEASE NOTES
The
.I grelnotes
program window consists of a menu bar at the top, a product and chapter title display below that, the document text viewer and a set of
.\"--- REMOVE COMMENTS ON NEXT LINE IF HAVE PRODUCT BUTTONS
.\"product and
chapter movement buttons at the bottom.
.PP
When
.I grelnotes
comes up it will be displaying a chapter of a product's release notes. The product and chapter currently displayed is indicated just below the program menu bar.
.PP
If you wish to read this chapter you may use the scrollbar and arrow buttons to the right of the text viewer to scroll through the document. The following keyboard keys may also be used for document browsing:
.TP 20
.B Up/Down arrows
Move up/down one line of text
.TP 20
.B Page Up/Down
Move up/down one page of text
.TP 20
.B Home/End
Move to top of first/last page
.TP 20
.B Spacebar
Move down one page of text
.PP
A new product may be selected from the 
.B Products
item on the program menu bar.
.\"--- REMOVE COMMENTS ON NEXT 5 LINES IF HAVE PRODUCT BUTTONS
.\"A new product may also be selected using the
.\".B Prev Product
.\"or
.\".B Next Product
.\"buttons at the bottom of the program window. These buttons move sequentially through the list of products.
.PP
A new chapter may be selected from the 
.B Chapters
item on the program menu bar. A new chapter may also be selected using the
.B Prev Chapter
or
.B Next Chapter
buttons at the bottom of the program window. These buttons move sequentially through the list of chapters.
.PP
Text in the text viewer may be selected for pasting into other documents or applications. Selection of text is performed using the left mouse button. Note that the document or application into which text is to be pasted must obey the ICCCM conventions for cut and paste operations.
.SH PRINTING RELEASE NOTES
.I grelnotes
provides printing of release notes by selecting the
.B Print...
item from the
.B File
menu. Either the current chapter or all chapters of the current product may be printed. All printing is done on the default system printer. Use the 
.I System Manager
program to establish a default printer on your system if one has not already been selected.
.SH UPDATING THE PRODUCT AND CHAPTER LISTS
If products have been added or removed from the system while
.I grelnotes
is running, the list of products and chapters that 
.I grelnotes
knows about can be updated by selecting
.B Update List
from the
.B File
menu.
.SH RELEASE NOTES DIRECTORY
Typically the release notes for all products installed on the workstation are
located in subdirectories of \f2/usr/relnotes\fP. By default, \f2grelnotes\fP
looks in this directory for release notes. A different release notes
directory path may be specified in a number of ways. If the program resource
\f3relnotesPath\fP is set to a directory path, \f2grelnotes\fP will look
in this directory for release notes. If the environment variable
\f3RELNOTESPATH\fP is set to a path, the program will look there for release
notes. Finally, if the command-line option \f3-rpath\fP is specified, the
path argument to this option will be used as the release notes directory.
The environment variable takes precedence over the program resource and
the command-line option takes precedence over the environment variable.
.SH WIDGET HIERARCHY
The following is an abbreviated widget hierarchy for
.I grelnotes.
.PP
.nf
grelnotes (Grelnotes)
	topForm (Form)
		menuBar (RowColumn)
		placeFrame (Frame)
			placeForm (Form)
				productLabel (Label)
				product (Label)
				chapterLabel (Label)
				chapter (Label)
		textViewSW (ScrolledWindow)
			textViewSB (ScrollBar)
			textViewFM (Frame)
				textView (TextView)
		buttonRC (RowColumn)
.\"--- REMOVE COMMENTS ON NEXT 2 LINES IF HAVE PRODUCT BUTTONS
.\"			prevProduct (PushButton)
.\"			nextProduct (PushButton)
			prevChapter (PushButton)
			nextChapter (PushButton)
.fi
.SH PROGRAM RESOURCES
.I grelnotes
is written using the standard X toolkit and the Motif widget set. The program accepts all standard Xt/Motif resources and command line options. In addition to these resources the following resources are specific to the
.I grelnotes
program and may be specified by the user.
.TP 25
.B relnotesPath\f1 (class \f3RelnotesPath\f1)
Specifies the root release notes directory. Each product's release notes are a subdirectory of this root pathname. See above discussion.
.TP 25
.B tempPath\f1 (class \f3TempPath\f1)
Specifies the directory into which temporary files created by the program should be placed. The path should not end with '/'.
Note that the environment variable
.B TMPDIR\f1,
if set, overrides any setting of this resource.
.TP 25
.B TextView.normalFont\f1 (class \f3Font\f1)
Specifies the font to be used for regular text. See note below.
.TP 25
.B TextView.underlineFont\f1 (class \f3Font\f1)
Specifies the font to be used for italicized or underlined text. See note below.
.TP 25
.B TextView.boldFont\f1 (class \f3Font\f1)
Specifies the font to be used for bolded text. See note below.
.TP 25
.B TextView.boldUnderFont\f1 (class \f3Font\f1)
Specifies the font to be used for text that is both bold and italicized or underlined. See note below.
.TP 25
.B TextView.normalForeground\f1 (class \f3Foreground\f1)
Specifies the foreground color for regular text.
.TP 25
.B TextView.underlineForeground\f1 (class \f3Foreground\f1)
Specifies the foreground color for italicized or underlined text.
.TP 25
.B TextView.boldForeground\f1 (class \f3Foreground\f1)
Specifies the foreground color for bolded text.
.TP 25
.B TextView.boldUnderForeground\f1 (class \f3Foreground\f1)
Specifies the foreground color for bolded and underlined text.
.TP 25
.B TextView.selectionForeground\f1 (class \f3Background\f1)
Specifies the foreground (text) color for selected text.
.TP 25
.B TextView.selectionBackground\f1 (class \f3Foreground\f1)
Specifies the background color for selected text.
.TP 25
.B TextView.textColumns\f1 (class \f3TextColumns\f1)
Specifies the number of columns to be displayed by the text viewer when 
.I grelnotes
comes up.
.TP 25
.B TextView.textRows\f1 (class \f3TextRows\f1)
Specifies the number of rows to be displayed by the text viewer when 
.I grelnotes
comes up.
.TP 25
.B TextView.blankCompress\f1 (class \f3BlankCompress\f1)
The on-line release notes have been formatted for printing with a standard page length. Therefore, pages have been padded with trailing blank lines where necessary. This resource is used to minimize the number of blank lines displayed.
This resource specifies a blank line threshold. Consecutive blank lines up to this threshold will be displayed. Any remaining consecutive blank lines will be ignored. Set this resource to zero (0) to disable blank line compression.
.SH TRANSLATIONS
The
.I grelnotes
program uses the following defaults for keyboard navigation and text selection. The translations may be changed using the
.B TextView.translations
resource.
.PP
.nf
.TS
center;
lb lb
l l.
Key/Button	Action Routine
_
<Btn1Down>:	StartSelect()
<Btn1Motion>:	DragSelect()
<Btn1Up>:	CompleteSelect()
<Key>Tab:	NextTabGroup()
Ctrl<Key>Tab:	NextTabGroup()
Shift<Key>Tab:	PrevTabGroup()
Ctrl Shift<Key>Tab:	PrevTabGroup()
<Key>osf3eginLine:	FirstPage()
<Key>KP_Home:	FirstPage()
<Key>KP_7:	FirstPage()
<Key>osfEndLine:	LastPage()
<Key>KP_End:	LastPage()
<Key>KP_1:	LastPage()
<Key>osfUp:	LineUp()
<Key>KP_Up:	LineUp()
<Key>KP_8:	LineUp()
<Key>osfDown:	LineDown()
<Key>KP_Down:	LineDown()
<Key>KP_2:	LineDown()
<Key>osfPageUp:	PageUp()
<Key>KP_Prior:	PageUp()
<Key>KP_9:	PageUp()
<Key>osfPageDown:	PageDown()
<Key>KP_Next:	PageDown()
<Key>KP_3:	PageDown()
<Key>space:	PageDown()
.TE
.fi
.SH ACTION ROUTINES
The 
.I grelnotes
program contains the following action routines.
.TP 20
.B StartSelect()
Begin a text selection.
.TP 20
.B DragSelect()
Drag the text selection.
.TP 20
.B CompleteSelect()
Complete a text selection.
.TP 20
.B NextTabGroup()
Move to next tab group.
.TP 20
.B PrevTabGroup()
Move to previous tab group.
.TP 20
.B FirstPage()
Scroll text to first page.
.TP 20
.B LastPage()
Scroll text to last page.
.TP 20
.B LineUp()
Scroll text one line down so that the next line up is visible.
.TP 20
.B LineDown()
Scroll text one line up so that the next line down is visible.
.TP 20
.B PageUp()
Scroll text one page down so that the next page up is visible.
.TP 20
.B PageDown()
Scroll text one page up so that the next page down is visible.
.SH NOTE
The
.I grelnotes
program displays pre-formatted release notes. The format assumes the use of a fixed-width font for all text styles. In addition, the format assumes that normal, underline, bold and bold-underline fonts all have the same character width. The default fonts for the
\f3normalFont\f1, \f3underlineFont\f1, \f3boldFont\f1 and \f3boldUnderFont\f1
resources have been chosen to adhere to these assumptions. If new fonts are to be specified for any of these resources,
the above assumptions should be observed or columnar output may not be properly aligned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
man(1), relnotes(1)
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Grelnotes\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Grelnotes
Program resource file
.TP
/usr/relnotes/<product>/TC
Table of contents file for <product>
.TP
/usr/relnotes/<product>/ch*.z
Release notes for <product>
.TP
/usr/tmp/grel<id>
Temporary file
