.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)groups.1	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/29/85
.\"
.TH GROUPS 1 "April 29, 1985"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
groups \- show group memberships
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
groups [user]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I groups
command shows the groups to which you or the optionally specified
user belong.
Each user belongs to a group specified in the password file
.BR /etc/passwd
and possibly to other groups as specified in the file
.BR /etc/group .
Invoking 
.I groups
without a
.I user
specified executes a
.I getgroups
system call, which returns the grouplist of which the
process is currently a member.  This list will contain only 
the effective group
.SM ID
unless a
.I multgrps
call has been executed; in that case it will contain all groups
in \f3/etc/group\fP to which the user belongs.
If you do not own a file but belong to the group which owns it
then you are granted group access to the file.
.PP
When creating a new file, if the underlying filesystem was mounted with
the
.SM BSD
file creation semantics flag [see
.IR fstab (4)]
or the
.SM
.B S_ISGID
bit is set [see
.IR chmod (2)]
on the parent directory, then the group
.SM ID
of the new file is set to the group
.SM ID
of the parent directory, otherwise it is set to the
effective group
.SM ID
of the calling process.
.PP
The maximum number of groups of which a process may
be a member is defined (as an lbootable option) in
\f3/var/sysgen/master.d/kernel\fP, named 
.SM
.BR NGROUPS_MAX .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
multgrps(1), newgrp(1), id(1), setgroups(2), open(2)
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd, /etc/group
