'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.hash @(#)hash	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} hash 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} hash 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} hash 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} hash "" "" "\&"
.ds OK [\|
.ds CK \|]
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3hash\f1 - remember or report utility locations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3hash\f1 [utility...]

\f3hash\f1 -r
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3hash\f1 utility affects the way the current shell environment
remembers the locations of utilities found as described in Command
Search and Execution . Depending on the arguments specified, it adds
utility locations to its list of remembered locations or it purges the
contents of the list. When no arguments are specified, it reports on
the contents of the list.
.PP
Utilities provided as built-ins to the shell are not reported by \f3hash\f1.
.SH OPTIONS
The \f3hash\f1 utility supports the XBD specification, Utility Syntax
Guidelines.
.PP
The following option is supported:
.TP 4
\f3-r\f1
Forget all previously remembered utility locations.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.TP 10
\f3utility\f1
The name of a utility to be searched for and added to the list
of remembered locations. If utility contains one or more slashes, the
results are unspecified.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables affect the execution of \f3hash\f1:
.TP 7
\f3PATH\f1
Determine the location of utility, as described in the XBD
specification, Environment Variables .
.SH STDOUT
The standard output of \f3hash\f1 is used when no arguments are specified.
Its format is unspecified, but includes the pathname of each utility in
the list of remembered locations for the current shell environment.
This list consists of those utilities named in previous \f3hash\f1
invocations that have been invoked, and may contain those invoked and
found through the normal command search process.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 4
0
Successful completion.
.TP 4
>0
An error occurred.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
Since \f3hash\f1 affects the current shell execution environment, it is
always provided as a shell regular built-in. If it is called in a
separate utility execution environment, such as one of the following:
.IP
nohup hash -r find . -type f | xargs hash
.PP
it will not affect the command search process of the caller's
environment.
.PP
The \f3hash\f1 utility may be implemented as an alias, for example, \f3alias -t
-\f1, in which case utilities found through normal command search will not
be listed by the \f3hash\f1 command.
.PP
The effects of \f3hash -r\f1 can also be achieved portably by resetting the
value of \f3PATH\f1; in the simplest form, this can be:
.IP
PATH="$PATH"
.PP
The use of \f3hash\f1 with utility names is unnecessary for most
applications, but may provide a performance improvement on a few
implementations; normally, the hashing process is included by default.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3sh(1)\f1
