'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} HIPPROBE 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} HIPPROBE 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} HIPPROBE 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} HIPPROBE "" "" "\&"
.\" $Id: hipprobe.1,v 1.1 1999/04/26 23:53:21 kenmcd Exp $
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3hipprobe\f1 \- probe configured HIPPI interfaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/pcp/bin/hipprobe\f1
[\f3\-v\f1]
[\f2hippi[0-N] ...\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hipprobe
will check the status of HIPPI interfaces on a system.
.P
.B hipprobe
is typically used within scripts to determine the number of HIPPI
interfaces which are not currently `ready'.  By default
.B hipprobe
will not produce any output, unless there is an error.  However,
.B hipprobe
can also be used, with the
.B -v
option, to display the status of each HIPPI interface.  Individual HIPPI
interfaces can also be given as arguments to
.B hipprobe
to specify which interfaces will be checked.
.P
The HIPPI interfaces are checked in three ways.
.TP
1.
The output from
.B hipcntl
is parsed to ensure the correct flags are present for the controller.
.TP
2.
The output from
.B ifconfig
is parsed to ensure the interface is up.
.TP
3.
The interface is
.BR ping 'ed
to ensure packets can be transmitted and received by the interface.
.P
.B hipprobe
will return the number of interfaces which were detected to have problems.
If no problems were detected, then 0 will be returned. On error
.B hipprobe
will return 255.
.P
For more advanced HIPPI interface problem diagnostics, refer to the
.BR hipcntl (1m)
and
.BR hiptest (1m)
man pages.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPintro (1),
.BR hippi (7m),
.BR hipcntl (1m),
.BR ifconfig (1m),
.BR ping (1m)
and
.BR hiptest (1m).
