'\"macro stdmacro
.\"********************************************************************
.\"*        Copyright (C) 1994, Silicon Graphics, Incorporated.       *
.\"*                   All Rights Reserved                            *
.\"********************************************************************
.TH iconv 1
.SH NAME
iconv \- code set conversion utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iconv
[-ei] -f fromcode -t tocode [file]
.br
.B iconv
[-ei] -l
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4iconv\fP 
converts the characters or sequences of characters in file from one
code set to another and writes the results to standard output.
Should no conversion exist for a particular character then it is
converted to the underscore '\0' in the target code set.
.PP
With the arguments 
.I fromcode 
and 
.I tocode 
identifying the input and output code sets, respectively  
\f4iconv\fP
will data perform conversion.  If no file argument is specified on 
the command line, 
\f4iconv\fP
reads the standard input.  
.I -e
will echo conversion errors to standard error while
.I -i 
will not report errors.  
.I -i 
is the default.
.PP
Optional 
\f4iconv\fP
converters are available by installing 
.I IRIX 
national language support options. 
\f4iconv\fP
.I -l 
will list converters that are configured for that system.  
\f4iconv\fP
.I -el 
will only list those converters that are able to be opened.  
These may be different due to resource or incomplete instalation 
problems.
.PP
Unless otherwise specified, conversions between dis-similar
code-sets are performed by using 
.I UNICODE 
as the intermediate code set.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following converts the contents of file "file.txt" from
code set ISO-8859-1 to UTF-8 and stores the results in file file.iv.
.PP
\f4iconv\fP
-f ISO8859-1 -t UTF-8 < file.txt > file.iv
.PP
Or if you have the Japanese environment installed you may
perform the following which converts file "file.sjis" from the PC-DOS
Japanese code set to the eucJP or Extended Unix Code for
Japanese and stores the results in "file.eucJP".
.PP
\f4iconv\fP
-f sjis -t eucJP < file.sjis > file.eucJP
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4iconv\fP(3c)
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/iconv/spec\fP
lists the conversions supported
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/iconv/tables\fP
conversion tables
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxmesg\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
\f4iconv\fP returns 0 upon successful completion, 1 otherwise.

