'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.jobs @(#)jobs	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} jobs 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} jobs 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} jobs 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} jobs "" "" "\&"
.ds OK [\|
.ds CK \|]
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3jobs\f1 - display status of jobs in the current session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3jobs\f1 [ \f3-l\f1 | \f3-p\f1][\f3job_id\f1...]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3jobs\f1 utility displays the status of jobs that were started in the
current shell environment; see Shell Execution Environment.
.PP
When \f3jobs\f1 reports the termination status of a job, the shell removes
its process ID from the list of those "known in the current shell
execution environment".
.SH OPTIONS
The \f3jobs\f1 utility supports the XBD specification, Utility Syntax
Guidelines.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.TP 4
\f3-l\f1 
(The letter ell.) Provide more information about each job listed.
This information includes the job number, current job, process group
ID, state and the command that formed the job.  
.TP 4
\f3-p\f1 
Display only the process IDs for the process group leaders of the selected jobs.
.PP
By default, the \f3jobs\f1 utility displays the status of all stopped jobs,
running background jobs and all jobs whose status has changed and have
not been reported by the shell.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.TP 9
\f3job_id\f1
Specifies the jobs for which the status is to be displayed. If
no \f3job_id\f1 is given, the status information for all jobs will be
displayed. The format of \f3job_id\f1 is described in the entry for job
control job ID in the \f3sh(1)\f1 manpage.
.SH STDOUT
If the \f3-p\f1 option is specified, the output consists of one line for each
process ID:
.IP
"%d\\n", <process ID>
.PP
Otherwise, if the \f3-l\f1 option is not specified, the output is a series of
lines of the form:
.IP
"[%d] %c %s %s\\n", <job-number>, <current>, <state>, <command>
.PP
where the fields are as follows:
.TP 15
<current>
The character "\f3+\f1" identifies the job that would be used as a default
for the \f3fg\f1 or \f3bg\f1 utilities; this job can also be specified using the
job_id \f3%+\f1 or \f3%%\f1. The character "\f3-\f1" identifies the job that would become
the default if the current default job were to exit; this job can also
be specified using the job_id \f3%-\f1. For other jobs, this field is a space
character. At most one job can be identified with "\f3+\f1" and at most one
job can be identified with "\f3-\f1". If there is any suspended job, then the
current job will be a suspended job. If there are at least two
suspended jobs, then the previous job will also be a suspended job.
.TP 15
<job-number>
A number that can be used to identify the process group to the wait,
\f3fg\f1, \f3bg\f1 and \f3kill\f1 utilities. Using these utilities, the job can be
identified by prefixing the job number with "\f3%\f1".
.TP 15
<state>
One of the following strings (in the POSIX locale):
.RS
.TP 19
\f3Running\f1
Indicates that the job has not been suspended by a signal and has not
exited.
.TP 19
\f3Done\f1
Indicates that the job completed and returned exit status zero.
.TP 19
\f3Done(code)\f1
Indicates that the job completed normally and that it exited with the
specified non-zero exit status, code, expressed as a decimal number.
.TP 19
\f3Stopped\f1
\ 
.TP 19
\f3Stopped (SIGTSTP)\f1
Indicates that the job was suspended by the \f3SIGTSTP\f1 signal.
.TP 19
\f3Stopped (SIGSTOP)\f1
Indicates that the job was suspended by the \f3SIGSTOP\f1 signal.
.TP 19
\f3Stopped (SIGTTIN)\f1
Indicates that the job was suspended by the \f3SIGTTIN\f1 signal.
.TP 19
\f3Stopped (SIGTTOU)\f1
Indicates that the job was suspended by the \f3SIGTTOU\f1 signal.
.TP 19
\ 
The implementation may substitute the string \f3Suspended\f1 in place of
\f3Stopped\f1. If the job was terminated by a signal, the format of <state>
is unspecified, but it will be visibly distinct from all of the other
<state> formats shown here and will indicate the name or description of
the signal causing the termination.
.RE
.TP 19
<command>
The associated command that was given to the shell.
.PP
If the \f3-l\f1 option is specified, a field containing the process group ID
is inserted before the <state> field. Also, more processes in a process
group may be output on separate lines, using only the process ID and
<\f3command\f1> fields.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 4
0
Successful completion.
.TP 4
>0
An error occurred.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
The \f3-p\f1 option is the only portable way to find out the process group of
a job because different implementations have different strategies for
defining the process group of the job. Usage such as \f3$(jobs -p)\f1
provides a way of referring to the process group of the job in an
implementation-independent way.
.PP
The \f3jobs\f1 utility will not work as expected when it is operating in its
own utility execution environment because that environment will have no
applicable jobs to manipulate. See the APPLICATION USAGE section for
\f3bg\f1. For this reason, jobs is generally implemented as a shell regular
built-in.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3
bg(1),
fg(1),
kill(1),
sh(1),
wait(1).
\f1
