'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.join @(#)join	41.8 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} join 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} join 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} join 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} join "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4join\f1 \- relational database operator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4join\f1
[
.I \-a n | \-v n 
] 
[ 
.I \-e s 
] 
[ 
.I \-o list 
]
[ 
.I \-t c 
] 
[ 
.I \-1 field 
] 
[ 
.I \-2 field 
] 
.I file1
.I file2

.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4join\fP
forms, on the standard output,
a join
of the two relations specified by the lines of
.I file1\^
and
.IR file2 .
If
.I file1\^
is \f4\-\fP, the standard input is used.
.I file1\^
and 
.I file2\^
must be sorted in increasing code set collating
sequence on the fields
on which they are to be joined,
normally the first in each line [see \f4sort\fP(1)].
\f4join\f1 processes supplementary code set characters in files,
and recognizes supplementary code set characters given
to the \f4\-e\f1 and \f4\-t\fP options (see below)
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
.PP
There is one line in the output 
for each pair of lines in 
.I file1\^
and 
.I file2\^
that have identical join fields.
The output line normally consists of the common field,
then the rest of the line from 
.IR file1 ,
then the rest of the line from
.IR file2 .
.PP
The default input field separators are blank, tab, or new-line.
In this case, multiple separators count as one field separator, and
leading separators are ignored.
The default output field separator is a blank.
.PP
Some of the options below use the argument
.IR n .
This argument should be a
\f41\f1
or a
\f42\f1
referring to either
.I file1
or
.IR file2 ,
respectively.
The following options are recognized:
.TP \w'\f4\-o\fP\ \f2list\fP\ \ 'u
\f4\-a\f2 n\f1
In addition to the normal output,
produce a line for each unpairable line in file
.IR n ,
where
.I n\^
is 1 or 2.
.TP
\f4\-e\f2 s\f1
Replace empty output fields with string
.IR s .
\f2s\f1 may contain supplementary code set characters.
.TP
\f4\-o\f2 list\f1
Each output line includes the fields specified in
.IR list ,
each element of which has the form
\f2n\f4.\f2m\^\f1,\f1
where
.I n\^
is a file number and
.I m\^
is a field number.
The common field is not printed
unless specifically requested.  
The list\f1 must be a single command line argument.
.TP
\f4\-t\f2 c\f1
Use character
.I c\^
as a separator (tab character).
Every appearance of
.I c\^
in a line is significant.
The character
.I c\^
is used as the field separator for both
input and output.
\f2c\f1 may be a supplementary code set character.
.TP
\f4\-v\f2 n\f1 
Instead of the default output, produce a line only for each
unpairable line in n\f1, where n\f1 is 1 or 2. If both 
\f4\-v\f2 1\f1 and \f4\-v\f2 2\f1 are specified, all unpairable
lines will be output.
.TP
\f4\-1\f2 field\f1
Join the field\f1th field of file 1. 
Fields are decimal integers starting with 1.
.TP 
\f4\-2\f2 field\f1 
Join the field\f1th field of file 2. 
Fields are decimal integers starting with 1.
.PP
The following options are obsoleted:
.TP 
\f4\-j\f2 field\f1 
Equivalent to:  \f4\-1 field\f1 \f4\-2 field\f1.
.TP 
\f4\-j\f21 field\f1 
Equivalent to:  \f4\-1 field\f1.
.TP 
\f4\-j\f22 field\f1 
Equivalent to:  \f4\-2 field\f1.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following command line will join
the password file and the group file,
matching on the numeric group ID, and outputting
the login name, the group name, and the login
directory.
It is assumed that the files have been sorted
in code set collating sequence on
the group ID fields.
.PP
.RS 2n
.ft 4
join \-1 4 \-2 3 \-o 1.1,2.1,1.6 \-t \: /etc/passwd /etc/group
.ft 1
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxdfm\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4awk\fP(1), \f4comm\fP(1), \f4sort\fP(1), \f4uniq\fP(1)
.SH NOTES
With default field separation,
the collating sequence is that of
\f4sort \-b\f1;
with
\f4\-t\f1,
the sequence is that of a plain sort.
.PP
The conventions of the
\f4join\fP,
\f4sort\fP,
\f4comm\fP,
\f4uniq\fP,
and
\f4awk\fP
commands are wildly incongruous.
.P
As an obsolescent feature, mutiple arguments can be specified for
\f4\-o\f1 option.  At that time, filenames that are numeric may cause
conflict when the \f4\-o\f1 option is used just before listing
filenames.  

.\"	@(#)join.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
.Ee





