'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.kill @(#)kill	41.10 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} kill 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} kill 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} kill 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} kill "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4kill\f1 \- terminate a process by default
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4kill \f1[\f4-\f2signal\f1] \f4pid\f1. . .
.br
\f4kill -\f2signal\fP -pgid\f1. . .
.br
\f4kill -l\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4kill\fP
sends a signal to the specified processes.
The value of \f2signal\fP may be numeric or symbolic [see \f4signal\f1(5)].
The symbolic signal name is the name as it appears in 
\f4/usr/include/sys/signal.h\f1, with the \f4SIG\fP prefix stripped off.
\%Signal 15 (\f4SIGTERM\fP) is sent by default; this will 
normally kill processes that do not catch or ignore the signal.
.PP
\f2pid\f1 and \f2pgid\f1 are unsigned numeric strings that identify
which process(es) should receive the signal.
If \f2pid\f1 is used,
the process with process ID \f2pid\f1 is selected.
If \f2pgid\f1 is
used, all processes with process group ID \f2pgid\f1 are selected.
.PP
The process number of each asynchronous process
started with \f4&\fP is reported by the shell
(unless more than one process is started in a pipeline,
in which case the number of the last process in
the pipeline is reported).
Process numbers can also be found by using
\f4ps\fP(1).
.PP
When invoked with the \f4\-l\f1 option, \f4kill\fP will print a list of 
symbolic signal names.
The details of the kill are described in
\f4kill\f1(2).
For example, if process number 0 is specified, all processes
in the process group are signaled.
.PP
The signalled process must belong to the current user unless
the user is a privileged user.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore.abi\f1
language-specific message file [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4ps\fP(1), \f4sh\fP(1),
\f4kill\fP(2),
\f4signal\fP(2), \f4signal\fP(5)
.\"	@(#)kill.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
