'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)last.1	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/29/85
.\"
.TH LAST 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
last \- indicate last logins of users and terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B last
[ \f2\-#\f1 ] [ \f3\-a\f1 ] [ \f3\-x\f1 ] [ \f3\-f\f1 \f2file\f1 [ \f3\-W\f1 ] 
[
name ...
] [
tty ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Last
will look in the
.I wtmp
file which records all logins and logouts for information about
a user, a terminal or any group of users and terminals.
Arguments specify names of users or terminals of interest.
Names of terminals may be given fully or abbreviated.
For example `last d1' is the same as `last ttyd1'.
If multiple arguments are given, the information which applies
to any of the arguments is printed.  For example `last root console'
would list all of "root's" sessions as well as all sessions
on the console terminal.
.PP
Note that 
.I Last 
shows only users of ttys and it does not report any logged in users
who are simply running X applications from their desktop menus.
.PP
.I Last
will print the sessions of the specified users and terminals,
most recent first, indicating the times at which the session
began, the duration of the session, and the terminal which the
session took place on.
.I Last
indicates if the session is still continuing or was cut short by a reboot.
If
.I wtmpx
exists, 
.I last
will also print the session's $DISPLAY (see \f4xdm\f1(1)), which 
generally identifies the remote host originating telnet, FTP,
or rlogin sessions.  In some cases this ``from'' field will be blank.
.PP
The pseudo-user \f2reboot\fP logs in at reboots of the system,
thus ``last reboot'' will give an indication of mean time between
system restarts.
.PP
.I Last
with no arguments prints a record of all logins and logouts, in
reverse order.
The
.B \-\f2#\fP
option limits the report to \f2#\fP lines, where \f2#\fP is a number.
.PP
.I Last
ordinarily does not display uninteresting records associated with
starting and stopping a login.
The
.B \-a
option displays those records.
.PP
The
.B \-f
option can be used to examine another file, such as
.IR /var/adm/OLDwtmp ,
in which old records are kept.  If the file is in extended format 
(eg. 
.IR /var/adm/OLDwtmpx ),
the 
.B \-x
option must be used also.
.PP
.B \-W
displays the ``from'' field on a separate line, untruncated.
(The \f4utmpx\f1 \f4ut_host\f1 field accommodates a 256-character string,
but most commands truncate before displaying it.)
.PP
If
.I last
is interrupted, it indicates how far the search has progressed
in
.I wtmp.
If interrupted with a quit signal
(generated by a control-\e),
.I last
indicates how far the search has progressed so far, and the
search continues.
.SH NOTE
.PP
Unlike in past releases, the
.I wtmp
and
.I wtmpx
files are automatically created during software installation.
.PP
The 
.I wtmp 
and 
.I wtmpx
files are rotated on a regular basis by 
.IR cron (1M)
to prevent them from filling the disk.
.SH FILES
/var/adm/wtmp		login data base
.br
/var/adm/wtmpx		extended login data base
.br
/var/adm/OLDwtmp	previous wtmp file
.br
/var/adm/OLDwtmpx	previous wtmpx file
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\f4xdm\f1(1), \f4w\f1(1), \f4who\f1(1), \f4utmp\f1(4), \f4utmpx\f1(4), 
\f4wtmp\f1(4), \f4wtmpx\f1(4)

