'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.launchESPartner @(#)launchESPartner	30.2 of 05/26/99
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} launchESPartner 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} launchESPartner 1 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} launchESPartner 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} launchESPartner "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
launchESPartner \- start Embedded Support Partner User Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/usr/bin/launchESPartner\f1 [\f3\-h\f1] [\f3\-l\f1] [\f3\-host\f1 hostname]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I launchESPartner\^
is a utility that brings up SGI Embeded Support Partner User Interface.
A web based User Interface requires a html browser (Netscape or Lynx)
to operate. The User Interface provides access to all SGI Embedded Support
Partner facilities. Please refer to \f2esp\f1(5) for a detailed description
of Embedded Support Partner and available facilities.
.P
.I launchESPartner\^
can be envoked either by double-clicking the Embedded
Support Partner icon (located in Icon Catalog > Support Tools folder)
or by typing
.I launchESPartner\^
from a shell command line.
.P
Upon invocation,
.I launchESPartner\^
tries to bring up a web browser and
connect to SGI Embedded Support Partner HTTP Server to access SGI ESP
facilities. Supported web browsers include Netscape (version 4.0 and
above) and Lynx (ASCII based web browser).
.P
.I launchESPartner\^
, by default, first checks for existance of Netscape and
brings it up if available.
.I launchESPartner\^
will open a new Netscape window and loads the User Interface in that new window.
In the absence of Netscape,
.I launchESPartner\^
attempts to start Lynx.
.I launchESPartner\^
fails if none of these browers exist.
.P
You can override the default behaviour of
.I launchESPartner\^
by giving a
\f3-l\f1 option which automatically brings Lynx browser. The Lynx interface
supports only Embedded Support Partner Single System facilities.
.P
.I launchESPartner\^
, when invoked without any arguments, brings up the
SGI ESP User Interface for the localhost.  One may use \f3-host\f1
\f2hostname\f1 option in order to start ESP User Interface for the
specified host.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.TP
.B launchESPartner -host MyHost
if Netscape is present then new Netscape window will be opened and
ESP Console initial page for MyHost will be loaded into it.
if only Lynx is present then Lynx will be started and
ESP Single System Manager page for MyHost will be loaded
into it.
.TP
.B launchESPartner -l -host MyHost
if Lynx is present then Lynx will be started and
ESP Single System Manager page for MyHost will be loaded
into it.
.SH SEE ALSO
netscape(1),
esp(5).
.SH NOTES
You can use any JavaScript-enabled WEB browser to work with
ESP. Just start your browser with following URL:
.P
.B http://hostname:5554/index.html
where hostname - is the name of the host running ESP.
.P
You can start ASCII version of SGI Embedded Support Partner User
Interface manually using the following shell command:
.P
.B /usr/local/bin/lynx http://hostname:5554/index_sem.txt.html
