'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.lfmt @(#)lfmt	41.8 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} lfmt 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} lfmt 1 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} lfmt 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} lfmt "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4lfmt\f1 \- display error message in standard format and pass to logging and monitoring services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
.nf
lfmt [\-c] [\-f \f2flags\f4] [\-l \f2label\f4][\-s \f2severity\f4][\-G \f2icon\f4][\-g \f2catalog\f4:\f2msgid\f4] \f2format\f4 [\f2args\f4]
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4lfmt\f1 uses \f2format\f1 for \f4printf\f1 style formatting of \f2args\f1.
\f4lfmt\f1 encapsulates the output in the standard error message format and
displays the output on \f2stderr\f1.
In addition, \f4lfmt\f1 forwards its output to the logging and monitoring facility.
.P
The following options are available.
.TP 12
\f4\-c\f1
Also write the output to the console logger device (\f4\/dev/conslog\f1), 
with a date and time stamp. This device is not normally used with IRIX.
.TP 12
\f4\-f \f2flags\f1
Specify logging information as a
comma-separated list of keywords from the following sets:
.RS
.TP 12
\f2Major classification\f1
Identifies the source of the condition.
Identifiers are:
\f4hard\f1 (hardware),
\f4soft\f1 (software), and
\f4firm\f1 (firmware).
.TP 12
\f2Message source subclassification\f1
Identifies the type of software in which the problem is spotted.
Identifiers are:
\f4appl\f1 (application),
\f4util\f1 (utility), and
\f4opsys\f1 (operating system).
.RE
.TP 12
\f4\-G \f2icon\f1
When the output device is the graphics console start up screen
(called the ``textport''), this option causes the message
to be drawn in a structured alert message box.  The \f2icon\f1
argument specifies which icon to use and is either 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4,
for Info, Progress, Question, Warning, or Action icons.  This
option is intended to be used in start up and shut down scripts.
.RE
.TP 12
\f4\-g \f2catalog\f4:\f2msgid\f1
Specify that a
localized version of \f2format\f1 should be retrieved from a
locale-specific message database.
\f2catalog\f1 indicates the message database that
contains the localized version of the \f2format\f1 string.
\f2catalog\f1 must be limited to 14 characters.
These characters must be selected from a set of all character values,
excluding \f4\\0\f1 (null) and the \s-1ASCII\s+1 codes for \f4/\f1 (slash) and
\f4:\f1 (colon).
.sp.5
\f2msgid\f1
is a positive number that indicates the index of the string
into the message database.
.sp.5
If \f2catalog\f1 does not exist in the current locale (identified by the
\f4LC_MESSAGES\f1 or \f4LANG\f1 environment variables),
or if \f2msgid\f1 is out of bounds,
\f4lfmt\f1 will attempt to retrieve the message from the C locale.
If this second retrieval fails, \f4lfmt\f1 uses the \f2format\f1
string as passed on the command line.
.sp.5
\f4lfmt\f1 will output
\f4Message not found!!\\n\f1 as the \f2format\f1 string
if \f2catalog\f1 is not a valid catalog name,
or if \f2msgid\f1 is not a valid number as defined above.
.TP 12
\f4\-l \f2label\f1
Specify the label string to be displayed
with the message (for example, \f4"UX:cat"\f1).
\f2label\f1 is a character string no more than 25 characters in length;
it will be automatically suffixed with a colon (\f4:\f1).
When unspecified, no label is displayed as part of the message.
.TP 12
\f4\-s \f2severity\f1
Specify the severity string to be
displayed with the message.
Acceptable strings include the standard severities in either their print string
(that is, \f4HALT\f1, \f4ERROR\f1, \f4INFO\f1, \f4WARNING\f1, and
\f4"TO FIX"\f1) or keyword (that is, \f4halt\f1, \f4error\f1, \f4info\f1,
\f4warn\f1, and \f4action\f1) forms, or any other user-defined string.
A user-defined string will be assigned the integer severity value of 5.
The severity will be suffixed with a colon (\f4:\f1).
The \f4ERROR\f1 severity will be used if no severity is specified.
.SS "Standard Error Message Format"
\f4lfmt\f1 displays error messages in the following format:
.P
.RS
\f2label\f4: \f2severity\f4: \f2text\f1
.RE
.P
If no \f2label\f1 was defined using the \f4-l \f2label\f1 option, the message
is displayed in the format:
.P
.RS
\f2severity\f4: \f2text\f1
.RE
.P
If \f4lfmt\f1 is called twice to display an
error message and a helpful \f2action\f1 or recovery message,
the output can look like the following:
.P
.RS
\f2label\f4: \f2severity\f4: \f2text\f1
.br
\f2label\f4: TO FIX: \f2text\f1
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Example 1:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
lfmt \-f soft,util \-l UX:test \-s info "test facility enabled\\n"
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.P
displays the message to \f2stderr\f1 and makes it available for logging:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
UX:test: INFO: test facility enabled
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4gettxt\fP(1),
\f4pfmt\fP(1),
\f4printf\fP(1),
\f4lfmt\fP(3C),
\f4pfmt\fP(3C),
\f4environ\fP(5),
\f4strace\fP(1),
\f4syslog\fP(1).
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS 
Upon success, \f4lfmt\f1 exits with code 0.
.P
Upon failure, \f4lfmt\f1 exits with the following codes:
.TP
1
write error.
.TP
2
cannot log or forward to console.
.TP
3
syntax error.
