'\"macro stdmacro
.\"********************************************************************
.\"*        Copyright (C) 1994, Silicon Graphics, Incorporated.       *
.\"*                   All Rights Reserved                            *
.\"********************************************************************
.TH localedef 1
.SH NAME
localedef \- define locale environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B localedef
[-c][-f charmap][-i sourcefile] name
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4localedef\fP utility converts source definitions for locale
categories into the locale source files usable by the locale
generators such as \f4chrtbl\fP, \f4wchrtbl\fP, \f4colltbl\fP, and
\f4montbl\fP. It will then execute those generators to produce the
locale runtime files \f4LC_CTYPE\f1, \f4LC_COLLATE\f1, and
\f4LC_MONETARY\f1 respectively.
.PP
The \f4localedef\fP utility reads source definitions for one or more
locale categories belonging to the same locale from the file named in
the i option (if specified) or from standard input.
.PP
The name operand identifies the target locale. Each category source 
definition is identified by the corresponding
environment variable name and terminated by an END category-name
statement. The following categories are supported. 
.PP
.TP
\f4LC_CTYPE\f1
Defines character classification and case conversion.
.TP
\f4LC_COLLATE\f1
Defines collation rules.
.TP
\f4LC_MONETARY\f1
Defines the format and symbols used in formatting of monetary
information.
.TP
\f4LC_NUMERIC\f1
Defines the decimal delimiter, grouping and
grouping symbol for non-monetary numeric
editing.
.TP
\f4LC_TIME\f1
Defines the format and content of date and time
information.
.TP
\f4LC_MESSAGES\f1
Defines the format and values of affirmative and
negative responses.
.PP
The 
\f4localedef\f1
utility supports the XPG4 localedef source defined by XBD
specification, Section 10.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.PP
.TP
\f4-c\f1  
Create permanent output even if warning messages have been
issued. 
.TP
\f4-f charmap\f1 
Specify the pathname of a file containing a
mapping of character symbols and collating element symbols to actual
character encodings. The format of the charmap is described under
the XBD specification, Section 4.4, Character Set Description File.
This option must be specified if symbolic names (other than
collating symbols defined in a collating-symbol keyword) are used.
Default is the POSIX character mapping file, 
/usr/lib/locale/charmap/POSIX. 
.TP
\f4-i inputfile\f1
The pathname of a file containing the source definitions. If 
this option is not present,
source definitions will be read from standard input. The format of
the inputfile is described in the XBD specification, Section 5.3,
Locale Definition.
.TP
\f4name\f1
Identifies the locale. See the XBD specification, Chapter 5,
Locale for a description of the use of this name. The name will be
the directory name that is used for the locale files for 
\f4chrtbl\fP,  
\f4wchrtbl\fP,  
\f4colltbl\fP,  
and 
\f4montbl\fP.
.PP
To have localedef create a permanent output, first it has to be run by
the superuser. Secondly, the name argument has to be prefixed with
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\fP. Also, the codeset name is specified in
the charmap file using the \f4<code_set_name>\fP directive has to be
known to the system. To find out what codeset names are defined, use
the \f4iconv -l\fP command. See the \f4iconv(1)\fP man page.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\f4localedef\fP -f foo.cm -i foo.src foo
.PP
In the above examples, the locale files will be created in
the foo directory as LC_COLLATE, LC_CTYPE, LC_MONETARY, LC_TIME, chrtbl_foo, 
ctype.c, colltbl_foo, montbl_foo and nl_lang_foo.src.

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4chrtbl\fP(3M), \f4wchrtbl\fP(3M), \f4colltbl\fP(3M), \f4montbl\fP(3M),
\f4iconv\fP(1)
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\fP
system supported locales
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/charmap/POSIX/\fP
POSIX character mapping file
.PP
.SH NOTE
In IRIX 6.5, the content of the \f4LC_CTYPE\f1
locale category was extended to comply with the XPG/4 standard.
The older LC_CTYPE binary format will not be recognized by the C library.
Therefore, all custom-built locales created under an older version of
IRIX must be regenerated with the later versions of \f4localedef\f1(1) and
associated \f4chrtbl\f1(1M)/\f4wchrtbl\f1(1M).

