'\"macro stdmacro
.\"********************************************************************
.\"*        Copyright (C) 1994, Silicon Graphics, Incorporated.       *
.\"*                   All Rights Reserved                            *
.\"********************************************************************
.TH locale 1
.SH NAME
locale \- get locale-specific information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B locale
[ -a| -m]  
.br
.B locale
[-ck] name...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\f4locale\fP
utility writes information about the current 
locale environment to the standard output.  When 
\f4locale\fP
is invoked without any arguments, it summarises the
current locale environment for each locale category as determined 
by the settings of the environment variables defined 
\f4LANG\fP, 
\f4LC_ALL\fP, 
\f4LC_CTYPE\fP, 
\f4LC_COLLATE\fP, 
\f4LC_MONETARY\fP, 
\f4LC_NUMERIC\fP, 
\f4LC_TIME\fP, and
\f4LC_MESSAGES\fP.
.PP
When invoked with operands, it writes values that have been assigned
to the keywords in the locale categories, as follows:
.PP
\-Specifying a keyword name selects the named keyword and the
category containing that keyword.
.PP
\-Specifying a category name selects the named category and all
keywords in that category.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.PP
.TP
\f4\-a\f1
Write information about all available locales. 
.TP
\f4\-c\f1
Write the names of selected locale categories; see STDOUT. The 
\f4\-c\f1
option increases readability when more than one category is selected
(for example, via more than one keyword name or via a category
name). It is valid both with and without the 
\f4\-k\f1 
option.
.TP
\f4\-k\f1  
Write the names and values of selected keywords.
.TP
\f4\-m\f1  
Write names of available charmaps.
.TP
\f4name\f1
The name of a locale category, the name of a keyword in a locale
category, or the reserved name \f4charmap\f1. The specified category
or keyword is selected for output.
.SH EXAMPLES
In the following examples, the assumption is that locale environment
variables are set as follows:
.PP
>
\f4LANG\fP
=en_US 
\f4LC_COLLATE\fP
=fr
.PP
>
\f4locale\fP
.PP
would result in the following output:
.br
LANG=en_US
.br
LC_COLLATE="fr"
.br
LC_CTYPE="en_US"
.br
LC_TIME="en_US"
.br
LC_NUMERIC="en_US"
.br
LC_MONETARY="en_US"
.br
LC_MESSAGES="en_US"
.br
LC_ALL=
.PP
> 
\f4LC_ALL\fP
=en_US
\f4locale \-ck decimal_point\fP
.PP
would produce:
.PP
LC_NUMERIC
.br
decimal_point="."
.PP
The following command shows an application of locale to
determine whether a user-supplied response is affirmative:
.PP
if printf "%s\n" "$response" | grep -Eq "$(
\f4local yesstr\fP
)" 
.br
then
.br
 affirmative processing goes here
.br
else
.br
 non-affirmative processing goes here
.br
fi
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\fP
system supported locales
