.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)logger.1	6.6 (Berkeley) 7/24/90
.\"
.TH LOGGER 1
.UC 6
.SH NAME
logger \- make entries in the system log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B logger
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-f
.I file
] [
.B \-t
.I tag
] [
.B \-p
.I pri
] [
.I message ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Logger
provides a shell command interface to the
.IR syslog  (3B)
system log routine.
It can log a message specified on the command line,
from a specified file, or from the standard input. 
Each line in the
specified file or standard input is logged separately.
.PP
.I Logger 
has the following options:
.TP 10n
.B \-i
Log the process ID of the logger process
with each line.
.TP
.B \-s
Log the message to standard error, as well as the system log.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Log the contents of the specified file.
.TP
.BI \-p \ pri
Enter the message with the specified priority.
The priority may be specified numerically
or as a ``facility.level''
pair.
For example, ``\-p local3.info''
logs the message(s) as
.IR info rmational
level in the
.I local3
facility.
The default is ``user.notice.''
See 
.IR syslog (3B)
for a description of the facilities and levels.
.TP
.BI \-t \ tag
Mark every line in the log with the specified
.IR tag .
.TP
.I message
The message to log; if not specified, and the \f3\-f\fP flag is not
provided, standard input is logged.
.PP
.I Logger
exits with 0 if successful, and with 1 if an error occurs.
.SH EXAMPLES
.Ex
logger  program failed
.Ee
This will log the message ``program failed'' with user's name as the
tag and with a facility and level of ``user.notice.''
.Ex
logger  \-p local0.notice  \-t sysprog  \-f /tmp/sysprog.errs
.Ee
This will log each line in the file
.IR /tmp/sysprog.errs
with the prefix ``sysprog''. The facility is ``local0'' and
the priority level is ``notice.''
.SH SEE ALSO
syslogd(1M)
