.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} login 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4login\f1 \- sign on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4login\f1 [ \f4-d\f1 \f2device\fP ] [ \f2name\fP [ \f2environ\fP ... ]]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\f4login\fP
command
is used at the beginning of each terminal session
and allows you to identify yourself to the system.
It is invoked
by the system when a connection
is first established.
It is invoked by the system when a previous user has
terminated the initial shell by typing a
<Ctrl-d>
to indicate an end-of-file.
.PP
If
\f4login\fP
is invoked as a command, it must replace the initial
command interpreter.
This is accomplished by typing
.Ex
\f4exec login\f1
.Ee
from the initial shell.
.PP
\f4login\fP
asks for your user name (if it is not supplied as an argument) and, if
appropriate, your password.
Echoing is turned off (where possible) during the typing of your password,
so it does not appear on the written record of the
session.
.PP
\f4login\f1
reads
\f4/etc/default/login\f1
to determine default behavior.
To change the defaults, the system
administrator should edit this file.
The syntax of the below lines within the \f4/etc/default/login\f1
file \f4must not\f1 contain any whitespaces.
The examples shown below are login
defaults.
Recognized values are:
.PP
.IP \f4CONSOLE=\f1\f2device\fP 17
If defined, only allows root logins on the device specified, typically
\f4/dev/console\f1.
This MUST NOT be defined as either \f4/dev/syscon\f1 or \f4/dev/systty\f1.
If undefined, root can log in on any device.
.IP \f4PASSREQ=NO\f1
Determines whether all accounts must have passwords.
If \f4YES\f1, and user has
no password, they are prompted for one at login time.
.IP \f4MANDPASS=NO\f1
Like \f4PASSREQ\f1, but doesn't allow users with no password to log in.
.IP \f4ALTSHELL=YES\f1
If \f4YES\f1, the environment variable SHELL is initialized.
.IP \f4UMASK=022\f1
Default umask, in octal.
.IP \f4TIMEOUT=60\f1
Exit login after this many seconds of inactivity (maximum 900, or 15 minutes)
.IP \f4SLEEPTIME=1\f1
Sleep for this many seconds before issuing "login incorrect" message
(maximum 60 seconds).
.IP \f4DISABLETIME=20\f1
After \f4LOGFAILURES\f1 or \f4MAXTRYS\f1 unsuccessful attempts,
sleep for \f4DISABLETIME\f1
seconds before exiting (no maximum).
.IP \f4MAXTRYS=3\f1
Exit login after \f4MAXTRYS\f1 unsuccessful attempts (0 = unlimited attempts).
.IP \f4LOGFAILURES=3\f1
If there are \f4LOGFAILURES\f1 consecutive unsuccessful login attempts, each of
them is logged in \f4/var/adm/loginlog\f1, if it exists.
\f4LOGFAILURES\f1 has a
maximum value of 20.
.IP
Note:  Users get at most the minimum of (\f4MAXTRYS\f1,
\f4LOGFAILURES\f1) unsuccessful attempts.
.IP \f4IDLEWEEKS=-1\f1
If nonnegative, specify a grace period during which users with expired
passwords are allowed to enter a new password.
In other words,
accounts with expired passwords can stay idle up to this long before being
"locked out."
If \f4IDLEWEEKS\f1 is 0, there is no grace period, and expired
passwords are the same as invalidated passwords.
.IP \f4PATH=\f1
Path for normal users (from /usr/include/paths.h).
.IP \f4SUPATH=\f1
Path for superuser (from /usr/include/paths.h).
.IP \f4SYSLOG=FAIL\f1
Log to syslog all login failures (\f4SYSLOG=FAIL\f1) or all successes and
failures (\f4SYSLOG=ALL\f1).
Log entries are written to the LOG_AUTH facility
(see
\f4syslog\f1(3C)
and
\f4syslogd\f1(1M)
for details).
No messages are sent to syslog
if not set.
Note that this is separate from the login log,
\f4/var/adm/loginlog\f1.
.IP \f4INITGROUPS=YES\f1
If \f4YES\f1, make the user session be a member of all of the user's supplementary
groups (see
\f4multgrps\f1(1)
or
\f4initgroups\f1(3C)).
.IP \f4LANG=C\f1
If \f4LANG\f1 is set, make this the default login language.  This is used
if no \f4LANG\f1 comes from \f4environment\f1 (rlogind, getty, ...) and
\f4$HOME/.lang\f1 does not exist or does not contain a lang id.  Only
LANG is supported, not other locale categories such as LC_CTYPE.
.IP \f4SVR4_SIGNALS=YES\f1
Use the SVR4 semantics for the SIGXCPU and SIGXFSZ signals.
If
\f4SVR4_SIGNALS=YES\f1, the SVR4 semantics are preserved and all processes
ignore SIGXCPU and SIGXFSZ by default.
If \f4SVR4_SIGNALS=NO\f1, these
two signals retain their default action, which is to cause the
receiving process to core dump.
If users intend to make use of the CPU
and filesize resource limits, \f4SVR4_SIGNALS\f1 should be set to \f4NO\f1.
Note that
using these signals while \f4SVR4_SIGNALS\f1 is set to \f4YES\f1
causes behavior that varies depending on the login shell.
This setting
has no affect on processes that explicitly alter the behavior of these
signals using the
\f4signal\f1(2)
system call.
.IP \f4SITECHECK=\f1
Use an external program to authenticate users instead of using the
encrypted password field.
This allows sites to implement other means of
authentication, such as card keys, biometrics, etc.
The program is invoked
with user name as the first argument, and remote hostname and username, if
applicable.
The action taken depend on exit status, as follows:
.RS
.IP \f40\f1 8
Success; user was authenticated, log in.
.IP \f41\f1 8
Failure; exit login.
.IP \f42\f1 8
Failure; try again (don't exit login).
.IP other 8
Use normal UNIX authentication.
.RE
.IP
If authentication fails, the program can chose to indicate either exit code
1 or 2, as appropriate.
If the program is not owned by root, is writable by
others, or cannot be executed, normal password authentication is performed.
It is recommended that the program be given a mode of 500.
.IP
Warning:  Because this option has the potential to defeat normal IRIX security,
any program used in this way must be designed and tested very carefully.
.IP \f4LOCKOUT=\f1
If nonzero, after this number of consecutive
unsuccessful login attempts by the same user,
by all instances of xdm and login, lock the
account by invoking \f4passwd -l username\f1.
Note that this feature allows a denial of service
attack that may require booting from the miniroot
to fix, as even the root accounts can be locked out.
.IP \f4LOCKOUTEXEMPT=\f1
If \f4LOCKOUT\f1 is greater than zero, the users listed as \f4LOCKOUTEXEMPT\f1
will \f4NOT\f1 be subject to the \f4LOCKOUT\f1 option.  Usernames are separated by
spaces, the list must be terminated by end-of-line, maximum list length is 240 
characters. 
\f4LOCKOUTEXEMPT\f1 is ignored unless \f4LOCKOUT\f1 is enabled, and the list is not empty. 
Including privileged accounts (such as \f4root\f1) in the \f4LOCKOUTEXEMPT\f1 list, 
is not recommended, as it allows an indefinite number of attacks on the exempt accounts. 
Also, if \f4LOCKOUTEXEMPT\f1 is enabled, the 
\f4/etc/default/login\f1 file should be given a mode 400 or 600 to prevent
unauthorized viewing and/or tampering with the \f4LOCKOUTEXEMPT\f1 list.
.IP \f4MACREMOTE=SESSION\f1
If \f4SESSION\f1, the session label of a remote login session is always
the same as that of the current login session. If \f4CLEARANCE\f1, the
default and permitted session labels of a remote login session become
those specified in
.IR clearance (4).
.PP
At some installations, you may be required to enter a dialup password for
dialup connections as well as a login password.
In this case, the prompt
for the dialup password is:
.Ex
\f4Dialup Password:\f1
.Ee
Both passwords are required for a successful login.
.PP
For remote logins over the network,
\f4login\fP
prints the contents of
\f4/etc/issue\f1
before prompting for a username or password.
The file
\f4/etc/nologin\f1
disables remote logins if it exists;
\f4login\fP
prints the contents of this file before disconnecting the session.
.PP
The system can be configured to automate the login process after a system
restart.
When the file
\f4/etc/autologin\fP exists and contains a valid user name,
the system logs in as the specified user without prompting for a user
name or password.
The automatic login takes place only after a system restart; once the
user logs out, the normal interactive login session is used
until the next restart.
This is intended to be used at sites where the normal security mechanisms
provided by \f4login\fP are not needed or desired.
If you make five incorrect login attempts, all five are
logged in \f4/var/adm/loginlog\f1 (if it exists)
and the TTY line is dropped.
.PP
If you do not complete the login successfully within a
certain period of time (by default, 20 seconds),
you are likely to be silently disconnected.
.PP
After a successful login, accounting files are updated, the
\f4/etc/profile\f1
script is executed, the time you last logged in is printed (unless a file
\f4\&.hushlogin\f1
is present in the user's home directory),
\f4/etc/motd\f1 is printed,
the user ID, group ID,
supplementary group list,
working directory, and command interpreter
(usually \f4sh\fP)
are initialized,
and the file
\f4\&.profile\f1
in the working directory is executed, if it exists.
The name of the command interpreter is
\f4\-\f1
followed by the last component of the interpreter's pathname
(for example,
\f4\-sh\f1).
If this field in the password file is empty,
the default command interpreter,
\f4/usr/bin/sh\f1
is used.
.P
If the shell field is
\f4*\f1,
the named directory becomes the root directory (a
.BR chroot (2)
is done to the
home directory, and the home directory is therefore
the starting point (/) for path searches for pathnames beginning with a
\f4/\f1.
At that point
\f4login\fP
is re-executed following the
.BR chroot (2).
.P
At the very least, this root structure must include the following
files, with \f4usr/lib32/libc.so.1\fP normally being a symlink
to \f4../../lib32/libc.so.1\fP.  A home directory must also exist, as
well as the shell for the user(s) being chroot'ed.  It is possible
to have the shell, password, and home directory be different in the
new environment.  In this example, the shell used is \f4/sbin/csh\fP,
and the home directory is \f4/usr/people/olson\fP.  Given the following
password entry, the directories and files listed below would exist
below the directory \f4/home/secure\fP.
.Ex
Entry in /etc/passwd:
  olson:hl0njohzc0uC2:2117:10:Dave Olson:/home/secure:*
Entry in /home/secure/etc/passwd:
  olson:am34670a63463:2117:10:Dave Olson:/usr/people/olson:/sbin/csh

dev:
tty    zero
etc:
group    passwd
lib32:
libc.so.1  rld
sbin:
csh
usr/bin:
login
usr/lib32:
libc.so.1@      libcrypt.so     libgen.so       libpthread.so
usr/people/olson:
\&.cshrc
.Ee
These files allow \f4login\f1 to execute correctly, but you may also
need to include additional files or applications that the
user is allowed to execute.
Since these applications can in turn rely
on additional shared libraries, it may also be necessary to place additional
shared objects in \f4/usr/lib32\f1.
See the \f4ftpd\f1(1M) reference page for more
information about setting up a root environment.
.PP
The basic
.I environment
is initialized to:
.Ex
\f4HOME=\f2your-login-directory\fP
\f4LOGNAME=\f2your-login-name\fP
\f4PATH=/usr/bin\f1
\f4SHELL=\f2last-field-of-passwd-entry\fP
\f4MAIL=/var/mail/\f2your-login-name\fP
\f4LANG=\f2language-specification\fP
\f4TZ=\f2timezone-specification\fP
.Ee
The environment can be expanded or modified by supplying additional
arguments when \f4login\fP
prints the prompt requesting the user's login name.
The arguments can take either of two forms:
.I xxx
or
\f2xxx\f4=\f2yyy\f1.
Arguments without an equal sign are placed
in the environment as
.Ex
\f4L\f2n\f4=\f2xxx\f1
.Ee
where
.I n
is a number that starts at 0 and is incremented each time
a new variable name is required.
Variables containing
\f4=\f1
are placed in the environment without modification.
If such a variable is already defined,
the new value replaces the old value.
To prevent users who log in to restricted
shell environments from spawning secondary shells that are not
restricted,
the following environment variables cannot be changed:
.Ex
\f4HOME\f1
\f4IFS\f1
\f4LOGNAME\f1
\f4PATH\f1
\f4SHELL\f1
.Ee
Attempts to set environment variables beginning with the following
strings (see the \f4rld\fP(1) reference page) are ignored, and such attempts
are logged via \f4syslogd\fP:
.Ex
\f4_RLD
LD_LIBRARY\f1
.Ee
\f4login\fP
understands simple, single-character quoting conventions.
Typing a
backslash
in front of a character quotes it and allows the inclusion of such
characters as spaces and tabs.
.PP
To enable dial-in line password protection, two files are required.
The file
\f4/etc/dialups\f1
must contain of the name of any dialup ports (for example,
\f4/dev/ttyd2\f1)
that require password protection.
These are specified
one per line.
The second file,
\f4/etc/d_passwd\f1
consists of lines with the following format:
.Ex
\f2shell\fP:\f2password\fP:
.Ee
This file is scanned when the user logs in, and if
the
.I shell
portion of any line matches the
command interpreter that the user gets, the
user is prompted for an additional dialin password,
which is encoded and compared to that
specified in the
.I password
portion of the line.
If the command interpreter cannot be found,
the entry for the default shell,
\f4/sbin/sh\f1,
(or, for compatibility with existing configurations,
\f4/bin/sh\f1)
is used.
(If both are present, the last one in file is used.)
If there is no such entry, no dialup password is required.
In other words, the
\f4/etc/d_passwd\f1
entry for
\f4/sbin/sh\f1
is the default.
.SH SHARE II ACTIONS
If the Share II system is installed and enabled,
\f4login\f1
prints the message:
.Ex
\f4Share login on\f1 \f2ttyname\f1.
.Ee
The following privilege and resource checks are made
after you have successfully entered your password,
but before the initial shell is started:
.IP 1. 4n
If your
\f4nologin\f1
flag is set, or you are already logged on and your
\f4onelogin\f1
flag is set, you are denied login.
.IP 2.
If a disk usage exceeds its soft disk limit in any of your domains,
a message is printed and you are given a
\f2warning\f1.
If you accumulate too many warnings, further login attempts are denied and
you must see your subadministrator to rectify the situation.
Whenever you log in or connect by remote shell
with no disk usages in excess of any soft limits,
all your accumulated warnings are cleared.
.IP 3.
If you do not have permission to use the terminal, as determined by
the respective
terminal permission flag,
you are denied login.
.IP 4.
Some installations place limits on terminal connect time,
both through logins and remote shell connections.
If you have already reached your connect time limit, you are
denied login.
Otherwise,
if the terminal costs more or less to use than normal terminals,
its cost is printed.
Your remaining connect time is also printed.
.PP
If all these checks are passed,
\f4login\f1
proceeds normally.
.SH NOTES
Autologin is controlled by the existence of the
\f4/etc/autologin\&.on\f1
file.
The file is normally created at boot time to automate the
login process and then removed by
\f4login\f1
to disable the autologin process for succeeding terminal sessions.
.P
In the default configuration, encrypted passwords for
users are kept in the system password file, \f4/etc/passwd\fP,
which is a text file and is readable by any system user.
The program \f4pwconv\fP(1M) can be used by the system administrator
to activate the shadow password mechanism.
When shadow passwords are enabled, the encrypted passwords are
kept only in \f4/etc/shadow\fP, a file that is only readable
by the superuser.
Refer to the \f4pwconv\fP(1M) reference page for more information
about shadow passwords.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 21
\f4/etc/dialups\f1	
.TP
\f4/etc/d_passwd\f1	
.TP
\f4/etc/motd\f1
message of the day
.TP
\f4/etc/passwd\f1
password file
.TP
\f4/etc/shadow\f1
shadow password file
.TP
\f4/etc/profile\f1
system profile
.TP
\f4$HOME/.profile\fP
user's login profile
.TP
\f4$HOME/.lang\fP
user's login language specification
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/iaf/scheme\f1
\f4login\f1 authentication scheme
.TP
\f4/var/adm/lastlog\f1
time of last login
.TP
\f4/var/adm/loginlog\f1
record of failed login attempts
.TP
\f4/var/adm/utmp\f1
accounting
.TP
\f4/var/adm/wtmp\f1
accounting
.TP
\f4/etc/default/login\f1
to determine default behavior
.TP
\f4/var/mail/\f2login_name\f1
mailbox for user \f2login_name\fP
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore\f1
language-specific message file (see \f4LANG\fP in \f4environ\f1(5))
.TP
\f4/etc/limconf\f1
the compiled Share II configuration file (machine readable)
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1),
newgrp(1),
pwconv(1M),
rexecd(1M),
rshd(1M),
sh(1),
su(1M),
loginlog(4),
passwd(4),
profile(4),
shadow(4),
environ(5),
share(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The message
.Ex
\f4UX:login: ERROR: Login incorrect\f1
.Ee
is printed if the user name or the password cannot be matched
or if the user's login account has expired or remained inactive
for a period greater than the system threshold.
.PP
The message
.Ex
\f4UX:login: ioctl() failed: TCSETA\f1
.Ee
is printed if the tty line does not support a requested baud rate
(specified for remote logins).  A similar message is also sent
to syslog. See
.IR serial(7)
for information on which
baud rates are supported.
.PP
The Share II-specific diagnostic messages are:
.TP
\f4Warning \f2X\f4 of \f2Y\f4: soft disk limit exceeded.\f1
One of your domains has a disk usage in excess of its soft limit.
.TP
\f4Connection denied.\&  Too many warnings.\f1
You have reached your warning limit.
See your system administrator.
.TP
\f4Connection denied.\&  Already logged in \- only one login allowed.\f1
You are already logged in at another terminal or connected to the
system by remote shell and your
\f4onelogin\f1
flag is set.
.TP
\f4Connection denied.\&  Currently barred from logging in.\f1
Your
\f4nologin\f1
flag is set.
.TP
\f4Connection denied.\&  No permission to use this terminal.\f1
You are not allowed to log in at this terminal because of a clear
\f4terminal permission\f1 flag.
.TP
\f4Share login on \f2ttyname\f4 \- terminal cost is \f2X\f4 times normal.\f1
You are charged for use of this terminal at
\f2X\f1
times the rate of a normal
terminal.
.TP
\f4You have a remaining terminal connect time of \f2Y\f1.
You may use this terminal until you have used up your remaining
connect time, at which point you are forced to log out.
.TP
\f4Connection denied.\&  Terminal connect time limit exceeded.\f1
You have already reached your terminal connect time limit.
.TP
\f4Share not configured \- no limit checks.\f1
The configuration file is unreadable for some reason, so
terminal privileges, connect time limits, and disk space limits
could not be checked.
