'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.ls $Revision: 1.24 $
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ls 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ls 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ls 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ls "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.SH NAME
\f4ls\f1 \- list contents of directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 4
ls
[\-RadLCxmlnogrtucpFbqisf1AMSDP\^]
[\f2names\f4]
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each directory argument,
\f4ls\f1
lists the contents of the directory;
for each file argument,
\f4ls\f1
repeats its name and any other information requested.
The output is sorted alphabetically by default.
When arguments are not given, the current directory is listed.
When several arguments are given,
the arguments are first sorted appropriately,
but file arguments appear
before directories and their contents.
\f4ls\f1 processes supplementary code set characters
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
and \f4LC_COLLATE\f1
environment variables [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)],
except as noted under the \f4\-b\f1 and \f4\-q\f1 options below.
.P
There are three major listing formats.
The default format for output directed to a terminal
is multi-column with entries
sorted down the columns.
The options \f4\-C\f1 and \f4\-x\f1 enable
multi-column formats; and the \f4\-m\f1 option
enables stream output format, in which files
are listed across the page, separated by
commas.
.P
To determine output formats for the
\f4\-C\f1,
\f4\-x\f1,
and
\f4\-m\f1
options,
\f4ls\f1
uses an environment variable,
\f4COLUMNS\f1,
to determine the number of positions available on one
output line.
If this variable is not set,
and the output is directed to a terminal,
the number of positions is obtained from the terminal device.
If this information cannot be obtained, 80 columns are assumed.
.P
The 
\f4ls\f1
command has the following options:
.TP
\f4\-R\f1
Recursively list subdirectories encountered.
.TP
\f4\-a\f1
List all entries, including those that begin with a
period (\^\f4.\f1\^), which
are normally not listed.
.TP
\f4\-A\f1
Like \f4\-a\f1 except it does not list the . and .. directories.
.TP
\f4\-d\f1
If an argument is a directory, list only its name
(not its contents);
often used with
\f4\-l\f1
to get the status
of a directory.
.TP
\f4\-L\f1
When listing status,
if an argument is a symbolic link, 
list the status of the file or directory
referenced by the link
rather than that of the link itself.
This option will have no effect if the argument is a dangling link.
.TP
\f4\-H\f1
If the file is a symbolic link, list the file itself.
This is the default behavior, except for a symbolic link to a directory
in the absence of the \f4\-l\f1
option, in which case the \f4\-L\f1 behavior is used by default.
\f4\-H\f1 and \f4\-L\f1 cancel one another in command line order.
.TP
\f4\-C\f1
Multi-column output with entries sorted down the columns.
This is the
default output format.
.TP
\f4\-x\f1
Multi-column output with entries sorted across rather than
down the page.
.TP
\f4\-m\f1
Stream output format; files are listed across the page, separated by commas.
.TP
\f4\-l\f1
List in long format, giving mode, number of links, owner, group,
size in bytes, and time of last modification
for each file (see below).
If the file has an Access Control List (ACL) the mode specification
will be followed by a ``\f4+\f1''.
If the file is\p
.br
.ne 4
a special file,
the size field contains
the major and minor device numbers rather than a size.
If the file is a symbolic link, the filename is printed
followed by
\f1``\f4->\f1''
and the pathname of the referenced file.
.TP
\f4\-n\f1
The same as
\f4\-l\f1,
except that the owner's
\f4UID\f1
and group's
\f4GID\f1
numbers are printed, rather than
the associated character strings.
.TP
\f4\-o\f1
The same as
\f4\-l\f1,
except that the group is not printed.
.TP
\f4\-g\f1
The same as
\f4\-l\f1,
except that the owner is not printed.
.TP
\f4\-h\f1
When file sizes are printed,
print them in a format that is easier to read
for large files.  The size will consist of the
number of units followed by a unit specifier
('b' for bytes, 'K' for kilobytes, 'M' for
megabytes, 'G' for gigabytes, etc.)
.TP
\f4\-r\f1
Reverse the order of sort to get reverse alphabetic
or oldest first as appropriate.
.TP
\f4\-t\f1
Sort by time stamp (latest first) instead of
by name.
The default is the last modification time.
(See \f4\-u\f1 and \f4\-c\f1.)
.TP
\f4\-u\f1
Use time of last access instead of last
modification for sorting (with the 
\f4\-t\f1
option) or printing (with the
\f4\-l\f1
option).
.TP
\f4\-c\f1
Use time of last modification of the i-node
(file created, mode changed, and so on) for sorting
(\f4\-t\f1)
or printing
(\f4\-l\f1).
.TP
\f4\-p\f1
Put a slash
(\f4/\f1)
after each filename if the file is a directory.
.TP
\f4\-F\f1
Put a slash
(\f4/\f1)
after each filename if the file is a directory,
an asterisk
(\f4*\f1)
if the file is executable,
an equal sign
(\f4=\f1)
if the file is an AF_UNIX address family socket,
and an ampersand
(\f4@\f1)
if the file is a symbolic link.  Unless the
\f4-H\f1 option is also used, symbolic links are followed to
see if they might be a directory; see above.
.TP
\f4\-b\f1
Force printing of non-printable characters to be in the octal
\f4\e\f2ddd\f1
notation.
All multibyte characters are considered printable.
.TP
\f4\-q\f1
Force printing of non-printable characters in file names as
the character question mark
(\f4?\f1).
All multibyte characters are considered printable.
.TP
\f4\-i\f1
For each file,
print the i-node number in the first column of the report.
.TP
\f4\-s\f1
Give size in blocks,
including indirect blocks, for each entry.
Holes in files are not included in the size.
A ``block'' is 512 bytes.
.TP
\f4\-S\f1
Show the canonical device name associated with a special file,
if it can be determined.
.TP
\f4\-f\f1
Force each argument to be interpreted as a directory
and list the name found in each slot.
This option turns off
\f4\-l\f1, \f4\-t\f1, \f4\-s\f1,
and
\f4\-r\f1,
and
turns on
\f4\-a\f1;
the order is the order in which entries
appear in the directory.
.TP
\f4\-1\f1
Print one entry per line of output.
.TP
\f4\-M\f1
Print the mandatory access control (
.SM MAC
) label of each entry, enclosed in square brackets.
The \f4-M\fP option may be set automatically by setting the environment
variable LABELFLAG to the (case insensitive) string "on", other values
have no effect.
If
.SM MAC
is not enabled, the square brackets will be empty.
.TP
\f4-D\f1
Print the Access Control List (
.SM ACL
) for the entry as an \f4acl\f1(4) string enclosed in square brackets.  If the 
.SM ACL
is empty or support for 
.SM ACLs
is not installed, the square brackets will be empty.
.TP
\f4-P\f1
Print the capabilities for the entry
as a \f4capabilities\f1(4) string enclosed in square brackets.
.P
If 
.SM MAC, 
.SM ACL,
and capabilities are all requested (-DMP in any order),
the entries are displayed in the order
.SM MAC,
capabilities,
.SM ACL.
.P
Specifying more than one of the options in the following mutually 
exclusive pairs is not considered an error: 
\f4\-C\f1
and
\f4\-l\f1(ell),
\f4\-m\f1
and
\f4\-l\f1(ell),
\f4\-x\f1
and
\f4\-l\f1(ell),
\f4\-C\f1
and
\f4\-1\f1(one),
\f4\-c\f1
and
\f4\-u\f1.
The last option specified in each pair determines the output format.
.P
The mode printed under the
\f4\-l\f1
option consists of eleven possible characters.
The first character may be one of the following:
.P
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
\f4d\f1
if the entry is a directory;
.TP
\f4l\f1
if the entry is a symbolic link;
.TP
\f4b\f1
if the entry is a block special file;
.TP
\f4c\f1
if the entry is a character special file;
.TP
\f4s\f1
if the entry is a \f4XENIX\f1 semaphore;
.TP
\f4m\f1
if the entry is a \f4XENIX\f1 shared data (memory);
.TP
\f4p\f1
if the entry is a fifo (named pipe) special file;
.TP
\f4S\f1
if the entry is an AF_UNIX address family socket;
.TP
\f4\-\f1
if the entry is a regular file.
.RE
.PD
.P
The next 9 characters are interpreted
as three sets of three bits each.
The first set refers to the owner's permissions;
the next to permissions of others in the user-group of the file;
and the last to all others.
Within each set, the three characters indicate
permission to read, write, and 
execute the file as a program, respectively.
For a directory, ``execute'' permission is interpreted
to mean permission to search the directory
for a specified file.
.P
\f4ls \-l\f1 (the long list) prints its output as follows:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
\-rwxrwxrwx  1 smith  dev    10876  May 16 9:42 part2
.ft 1
.RE
.P
Reading from right to left, you see that the current directory holds
one file, named
\f4part2\f1.
Next, the last time that file's contents were modified was 9:42 A.M. on
May 16.
The file contains 10,876 bytes.
The owner of the file, or the user, belongs to the group
\f4dev\f1
(perhaps indicating ``development''), and their
login name is
\f4smith\f1.
The number, in this case
\f41\f1,
indicates the number of links to file
\f4part2\f1
[see \f4cp\f1(1)].
Finally, the dash and letters tell you that
user, group, and others
have permissions to read, write, and execute
\f4part2\f1.
.P
The execute (\f4x\f1)
symbol here occupies the third position of the three-character sequence.
A \f4\-\f1 in the third position would have indicated a denial of
execution permissions.
.P
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.P
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
\f4r\f1
the file is readable
.TP
\f4w\f1
the file is writable
.TP
\f4x\f1
the file is executable
.TP
\f4\-\f1
the indicated permission is
not
granted
.TP
\f4l\f1
mandatory locking occurs during access
(the set-group-ID bit
is on and the group execution bit is off)
.TP
\f4s\f1
the set-user-ID or set-group-ID bit is on,
and the corresponding user or group execution bit is also on
.TP
\f4S\f1
undefined bit-state (the set-user-ID bit is on
and the user execution bit is off)
.TP
\f4t\f1
the 1000 (octal) bit, or sticky bit, is on [see \f4chmod\f1(1)],
and execution is on
.TP
\f4T\f1
the 1000 bit is turned on, and execution is off (undefined bit-state)
.RE
.PD
.P
For user and group permissions,
the third position is sometimes occupied by a character other
than \f4x\f1 or \f4\-\f1.
\f4s\f1 also may occupy this position,
referring to the state of the set-ID bit, whether it be the
user's or the group's.
The ability
to assume the same ID as the user during
execution is, for example, used during login when you begin as root
but need to assume the identity of the user you login as.
.P
In the case of the sequence of group permissions, \f4l\f1 may occupy
the third position.
\f4l\f1 refers to mandatory file and record locking.
This permission describes a file's ability to
allow other files to lock its reading or writing permissions during access.
.P
For other permissions,
the third position may be occupied by \f4t\f1 or \f4T\f1.
These refer to the state of the sticky bit and execution permissions.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
An example of a file's permissions is:
.IP
\f4\-rwxr\-\-r\-\-\f1
.P
This describes a file that is readable, writable, and executable
by the user and readable by the group and others.
.P
Another example of a file's permissions is:
.IP
\f4\-rwsr\-xr\-x\f1
.P
This describes a file that is readable, writable, and
executable by the user,
readable and executable by the group and others,
and allows its user-ID to be assumed, during execution,
by the user presently executing it.
.P
Another example of a file's permissions is:
.IP
\f4\-rw\-rwl\-\-\-\f1
.P
This 
describes a file that is readable and writable
only by the user and the group and can be locked during access.
.br
.ne 6
.P
An example of a command line:
.IP
\f4ls \-a\f1
.P
This command prints the names of all files in the current directory,
including those that begin with a dot (\^\f4.\f1\^), which normally
do not print.
.P
Another example of a command line:
.IP
\f4ls \-aisn\f1
.P
This command provides information
on all files, including those that begin with a dot (\f4a\f1),
the i-number of the file
printed in the left-hand
column (\f4i\f1);
the size (in blocks) of the files, printed in the column
to the right of the i-numbers (\f4s\f1);
finally, the report is displayed in the numeric version of the
long list, printing the UID (instead of user name)
and GID (instead of group name) numbers associated with the files.
.P
When the sizes of the files in a directory
are listed, a total count of blocks,
including indirect blocks, excluding holes, is printed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/etc/passwd\f1
user IDs for \f4ls \-l\f1 and \f4ls \-o\f1
.TP
\f4/etc/group\f1
group IDs for \f4ls \-l\f1 and \f4ls \-g\f1
.TP
\f4/etc/mac\f1
.SM MAC
label names for \f4ls \-M\f1
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore.abi\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1 (5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4chmod\f1(1),
\f4find\f1(1)
.SH NOTES
.P
Unprintable characters in file names may confuse the
columnar output options.
.P
The total block count will be incorrect if
there are hard links among the files.
.\"	$Revision: 1.24 $
.Ee
