'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.mail @(#)mail	31.3 of 1/23/87
.TH MAIL_ATT 1
.\"@(#)mail.1	6.3
.SH NAME
mail \- send mail to users or read mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I Sending mail:
.PP
.B mail
.I address
[
.IR address "... ]"
.PP
.I Reading mail:
.PP
.B mail
[
.B \-ehpqr
] [
.B \-f
.I file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "Sending Mail"
.PP
The command-line arguments that follow affect SENDING mail:
.PD
.PP
An
.I address
can be any one of the following:
.IP 1) 3
An RFC 822-compliant address specification (i.e. ``user@host.domain'').
.IP 2)
A UUCP route (i.e. ``host1!host2!user'').
.IP 3)
A local user name or alias.
.PP
When
.I addresses
are specified,
.I mail
assumes a message is being sent.
It reads the text of the message from standard input up to an end-of-file
(control-d),
or until it reads a line consisting of just a period. 
When either of those signals is received,
.I mail
passes the message text and the list of
.I addresses
to the
.IR sendmail (1M)
program for further disposition.
.PP
If a letter is found to be undeliverable, it is returned to the
sender with diagnostics that indicate the location and nature of the
failure.
If 
.I mail\^
is interrupted during input, the file
.I dead.letter
is saved to allow editing and resending.
.I dead.letter
is normally maintained by 
.IR sendmail ,
and the interrupted message
will be appended to the previous contents. 
.RE
.SS "Reading Mail"
.PP
The command-line arguments that follow affect READING mail:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B \-e
causes mail not to be printed.
An exit value of 0 is returned if the user has mail;
otherwise, an exit value of 1 is returned.
.TP
.B \-h
causes a window of headers to be displayed rather than the latest
message.  The display is followed by the '\f3?\f1' prompt.
.TP
.B \-p
causes all messages to be printed without prompting for disposition.
.TP
.B \-q
causes
.I mail\^
to terminate after interrupts.
Normally an interrupt causes only the
termination of the message being printed.
.TP
.B \-r
causes messages to be printed in first-in, first-out order.
.TP
.BI \-f file\^
causes
.I mail\^
to use
.I file\^
(e.g.,
.BR mbox )
instead of the default
.IR "system mailbox" .
.PD
.PP
.IR mail\^ ,
unless otherwise influenced by command-line arguments,
prints a user's mail messages
in last-in, first-out order.
For each message,
the user is prompted with a
.BR ? ,
and a line is read from standard input.
The following commands are available
to determine the disposition of the message:
.PD 
.TP 22
<new-line>, \f3+\f1, or \f3n\f1
Go on to next message.
.TP
\f3d\f1, or \f3dp\f1
Delete message and go on to next message.
.TP
.B d #
Delete message number #.  Do not go on to next message.
.TP
.B dq
Delete message and quit \f2mail\f1.
.TP
.B h
Display a window of headers around current message.
.TP
.B h #
Display header of message number #.
.TP
.B h a
Display headers of ALL messages in the user's \f2system mailbox\f1.
.TP
.B h d
Display headers of messages scheduled for deletion.
.TP
.B p
Print current message again.
.TP
.B \-
Print previous message.
.TP
.B a
Print message that arrived during the \f2mail\f1 session.
.TP
.B #
Print message number #.
.TP
.B r [ \f2users\^\fP ]
Reply to the sender, and other \f2user(s)\f1, then delete the
message.
.TP
\f3s\fP [ \f2files\^\fP ]
Save message in the named
.I files\^
.RB ( mbox
is default).
.TP
.B y
Same as save.
.TP
.B u [ # ]
Undelete message number # (default is last read).
.TP
\f3w\fP [ \f2files\^\fP ]
Save message, without its top-most header, in the named
.I files\^
.RB ( mbox
is default).
.TP
\f3m\fP [ \f2addresses\^\fP ]
Mail the message to the listed
.IR addresses .
.TP
\f3q\f1, or \f3ctl-d\f1
Put undeleted mail back in the
.I system mailbox\^
and quit \f2mail\f1.
.TP
.B x
Put all mail back in the
.I system mailbox\^
unchanged and exit \f2mail\f1.
.br
.ne 8
.TP
.BI ! command\^
Escape to the shell to do
.IR command .
.TP
.B ?
Print a command summary.
.PD
.PP
When a user logs in, the presence
of mail, if any, is indicated. Also, notification
is made if new mail arrives while using
.IR mail .
.RE 0
.PP
The
.I system mailbox\^
permissions may be manipulated to alter the function of
.IR mail .
The
.I other\^
permissions of the file may be read-write, read-only, or neither
read nor write to allow different levels of privacy.
If changed to other than the default, the file will be preserved
even when empty to perpetuate the desired permissions.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Earlier versions of \f2mail\f1 implemented an
.B \-F
option which was used to set up mail forwarding by placing special
control text at the top of an empty system mailbox.  This option is no longer
supported by \f2mail\f1 in favor of the more convenient and general
mechanism provided by the
.I \&.forward
file used by 
.IR sendmail (1M).
.PP
When sending mail, \f2mail\f1 does not insert a blank line at the
beginning of the body.  Normally this is not a problem.  However, if
the first line has the form of a valid header line (non-whitespace
text, then a colon, and then more text), some mail delivery agents will
parse it as a header line, find it invalid, and omit it from the
delivered mail.  When sending mail (particularly from programs) that
might (sometimes) start with such a line, the problem can be avoided by
making the the first line of the body be empty; that is, just a
newline.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 22
/etc/passwd
to identify sender and locate users
.TP
/var/mail/\f2user\fP
incoming mail for \f2user\fP;
i.e., the
.I system
.I mailbox\^
.TP
/var/mail/\f2user\fP.lock
lock for \f2user\fP's
.I system
.I mailbox\^
.TP
.SM
$HOME\*S/mbox
saved mail
.TP
.SM
$MAIL\*S
variable containing path name of the
.I system
.I mailbox\^
.TP
/tmp/mail\(**
misc. temporary files
.TP
/var/mail/:saved
directory where temporary copies of the \f2system mailbox\fP are
written when it is being updated
.TP
dead.letter
file where the text of last aborted message will be saved
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
login(1), mail_bsd(1), rmail(1M), sendmail(1M), uux(1C), write(1), aliases(4).
.br
Internet RFC 822 - Standard for the Format of Internet Text Messages.
.ne 8
.SH BUGS
Conditions sometimes result
in a failure to remove a lock file.
.br
After an interrupt, the next message may not be printed;
printing may be forced by typing a
.BR p .
.\"	@(#)mail.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att1
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of zero is returned.
Otherwise a value is returned to to indicate the error:
.TP
1        flag 'e' error 
.TP
2        file error 
.TP
3        no space 
.TP
4        cannot forward 
.TP
5        syntax error 
.TP
6        forwarding loop 
.TP
7        invalid sender 
.TP
8        invalid user 
.TP
9        too many From lines 
.TP
10       bad permissions 
.TP
11       mbox problem 
.TP
12       temporary file problem 
.TP
13       Cannot create dead.letter 
.TP
14       Unbounded forwarding 
.TP
15       cannot create lock file - XXXrs 
.TP
16       no group id of 'mail' 
.TP
17       malloc failure 
.TP
18       could not fork 
.TP
19       could not pipe 
.TP
20       invoker does not own mailfile 
.TP
21       can't call sendmail 

