'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.makekey @(#)makekey	30.3 of 3/5/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} MAKEKEY 1 "Security Administration Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} MAKEKEY 1 "Security Administration Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} MAKEKEY 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} MAKEKEY "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
makekey \- generate encryption key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/makekey
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I makekey\^
improves the usefulness of encryption schemes
depending on a key by increasing the amount of time required to
search the key space.
It reads 10 bytes from its standard input,
and writes 13 bytes on its standard output.
The output depends on the input in a way intended
to be difficult to compute (i.e., to require a substantial
fraction of a second).
.PP
The first eight input bytes
(the
.IR "input key" )
can be arbitrary
.SM ASCII
characters.
The last
two (the
.IR salt )
are best chosen from the set of digits,
.BR . ,
.BR / ,
and
upper- and lower-case
letters.
The salt characters are repeated as the first two characters of the output.
The remaining 11 output characters are chosen from the same set as the salt
and constitute the
.IR "output key" .
.\".PP
.\"The transformation performed is essentially the following:
.\"the salt is used to select one of 4,096 cryptographic
.\"machines all based on the National Bureau of Standards
.\".SM DES
.\"algorithm, but broken in 4,096 different ways.
.\"Using the
.\".I input key\^
.\"as key,
.\"a constant string is fed into the machine and recirculated
.\"a number of times.
.\"The 64 bits that come out are distributed into the 66
.\".I output key\^
.\"bits in the result.
.PP
.I makekey\^
is intended for programs that perform encryption.
Usually, its input and output will be pipes.
.SH SEE ALSO
ed(1), crypt(1), vi(1),
passwd(4)
.\".SH WARNING
.\"This command is provided with the Security Administration Utilities,
.\"which is only available in the United States.
.\"	@(#)makekey.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
