'\"! mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.tr ~"
.if t .ds i \(fm\(fm
.if n .ds i ""
.TH MAN 1
.SH NAME
man \- print entries from the on-line reference manuals; find manual entries by keyword
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
.RB [ \-cdwWtpr ]
.RB [ \-M
.IR path\^ ]
.RB [ \-T
.IR macropackage\^ ]
.RI [ section ]
.IR title\^ " ..."
.br
.B man
.RB [ \-M
.IR path\^ ]
.B \-k
.IR keyword\^ " ..."
.br
.B man
.RB [ \-M
.IR path\^ ]
.B \-f
.IR filename\^ " ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I man\^
locates and prints the
.IR title ed
entries from the on-line reference manuals.
.I man\^
also prints summaries of manual entries selected by
.I keyword\^
or by associated
.IR filename\^ .
.PP
If a
.I section\^
is given, only that particular section is searched for the specified
.IR title\^ .
The current list of valid sections are any single digit [0-9],
the letter 'D', plus
the sections
.BR local ,
.BR public ,
.BR new ,
and
.BR old ,
corresponding to the sections
.BR l ,
.BR p ,
.BR n ,
and
.BR o ,
respectively.
When a section name of this form is
given, the first character is used to form the directory,
thus "local", will cause directories ending in "manl" to be searched.
To find a man page with the name of one of these sections, it is 
necessary to first give a dummy name, such as "man junk local",
which is unfortunate.
.PP
If no
.I section\^
is given, all sections of the on-line reference manuals are searched and
all occurrences of
.I title\^
are printed.  The default sections are searched in this order:
.B 1nl6823457poD
.PP
Manual entries are retrieved in the following order:
for each root directory in the search path, language specific directories are
searched
first (see discussion of the
.B LANG
environment variable below),
followed by generic directories. Within each of those searches, local
additions are searched first, followed by the standard manual directories.
In each leaf directory, there may be actual pages or subdirectories.
If the subdirectory name has the format
.I cat[1-8lnopD]
then the pages in that subdirectory are treated as pre-formatted "cat" manual
entries.
If the subdirectory name has the format
.I man[1-8lnopD]
then the pages in that subdirectory are treated as unformatted
.IR nroff (1)
source manual entries.
Unformatted manual entries will be processed by
.IR neqn (1),
.IR tbl (1),
.IR nroff (1),
and
.IR col (1).
(See the
.B CAVEATS
section concerning formatting unformatted manual pages.)
These must be installed with a standard suffix, such as
.IR .1m ,
in order for the
.I man
command to find them (i.e., name, period, suffix).
The "cat" manual entries are compressed to save disk space using
.IR pack\^ (1),
.IR compress\^ (1),
or
.IR gzip\^ (1);
all pre-formatted man pages must be compressed
with one of the abvoe in order for the man command to find them.
.I man
will automatically uncompress compressed "cat" manual entries using
.IR pcat (1),
.IR zcat (1),
or
.IR gzcat (1)
respectively.
.PP
After the local additions are searched, the standard pre-formatted manual
entries in
.I /usr/share/catman/[agpu]_man
are searched.
.PP
After searching
.IR /usr/share/catman ,
.I man
will search
.I /usr/share/man ,
.I /usr/catman ,
then
.I /usr/man ,
for manual pages.
The user may override these default root directories for manual entries
with the environment variable
.B MANPATH
or with the command-line options
.B \-M
and
.BR \-d .
(See discussion below.)
.PP
.B IRIX
is derived from four
main sources: AT&T, Berkeley, MIPS Computer Systems, and Sun Microsystems.
Because development at these sources is more or less independent,
in several cases programs have been given the same name but have vastly
different functionality.  The manual entries for such programs
have been distinguished by giving them suffixes:
.BR _att ,
.BR _bsd ,
.BR _mips ,
or
.BR _sun .
You do not need to give the suffixes.
If 
.I man
is given an un-suffixed title 
.I title
for which suffixed entries exist, it will display all of them.
.PP
Searches for
.IR titles\^ ,
.IR keywords\^ ,
and
.I filenames
are case-insensitive.
For example, the manual entry 
.IR RGBcolor (3G)
can 
be gotten by the command-line:
.IP
man rgbcolor
.PP
Also,
.IR titles\^ ,
.IR keywords\^ ,
and
.I filenames
may contain special characters allowing manual pages to looked up by only
specifying partial names in much the same way that 
.IR sh (1)
and
.IR csh (1)
match file names.
For example, the summaries of manual entries pertaining to RGB writemasks
may be searched by the command-line:
.IP
man \-k 'rgb*mask'
.PP
The complete set of special characters is as follows:
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
.in +1i
.P0
.TP \w'\[...\]\ \ \|\|'u
.B *
Match any sequence of characters, including none-at-all.
.TP
.B ?
Match any single character.
.TP
.B [...]
Matches any of the set of characters between the brackets.
A pair of characters separated by
.B \-
matches any one of the characters which comes between the two characters,
including the two characters, based on ASCII character encoding (see
.IR ascii (5)).
.PD
.in -1i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
.PP
.I man
also supports a more sophisticated means for looking up manual pages
using regular expressions.  To use regular expressions to lookup manual
pages, you must use the
.B \-r
option discussed below.
.SH OPTIONS
.P0
.TP \w'\-f\ filename\ \ \|\|'u
.BI "\-M " path\^
Use
.I path\^
as the search path for manual entries.
.I path\^
is a colon-separated list of directories where manual subdirectories may
be found.
The default path is
.IR /usr/share/catman:/usr/share/man:/usr/catman:/usr/man .
.B \-M
is useful for searching locations other than the standard manual directories
for manual entries.
These locations could be personal manual page trees or NFS mounted 
BSD style manual page trees from another system.
For example, the standard manual directories could be augmented with personal
manual pages by specifying the path:
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
.ti +2n
/usr/share/catman:/usr/share/man:/usr/catman:/usr/man:$HOME/man
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp 0.5
.B \-M
must be given before
.B \-k
and
.BR \-f .
.B \-M
will override the environment variable
.BR MANPATH .
.B \-M
and 
.B \-d
are mutually exclusive.
At most 100 directories may be specified; if more are specified,
the rest will be ignored.
.TP
.B \-c
Copy the manual page to the standard output instead of using 
.IR more (1)
or the user specified
.B PAGER
or
.BR MANPAGER .
.TP
.B \-d
Use the direct path specified for finding the manual page
.IR title\^ .
The
.B \-d
option uses the full path name of the specified
.I title
as the manual page to print, formatting it if necessary.
Since
.B \-d
does no searching, any suffixes like ".1" must be specified otherwise the
manual page will not be found.
If no leading path is specified, the current directory (.) is assumed.
.B \-d
is useful for formatting manual page sources you are editing as part of
your software development.
The
.B \-t
option may be used in conjunction with
.B \-d
to format a manual page source file and send it to the printer.
.B \-d
will ignore the environment variable
.BR MANPATH .
.B \-d
and 
.B \-M
are mutually exclusive.
.TP
.B \-p
Print on standard output the commands that would be executed to format and
display the specified manual pages instead of actually executing the commands.
The printed command reflects the environment variable settings described below.
.TP
.B \-w
Print only the
.I "pathname\^"
of each entry matching the given
.IR title\^ .
The actual matching entry will not be printed, only its path is given.
.TP
.B \-t
Typeset each 
.IR title d
manual entry and send the result to the printer.
In the case of the preformatted "cat" manual pages which come standard
with
.BR IRIX ,
the entry is unpacked using
.IR pcat (1)
and then sent to the default printer using
.IR lp (1).
If, however, the manual entry is a locally added, unformatted
.IR nroff (1)
source, the entry will be formatted using
.IR psroff (1)
and sent to the printer.
The environment variable
.B TROFF
may be used to specify another formatting program other than
.I psroff
(see the discussion on
.B ENVIRONMENT
below.
If the
BSD
.IR lpr (1)
printing facility is used, the
.B TCAT
and
.B NCAT
environment variables should be set to send the output to
.I lpr
instead of
.I lp.
.TP
.BI "\-T " macropackage
The given
.IR nroff (1)
macro package will be used for formatting unformatted manual entries.
By default,
.I /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
is used.
.TP
.BI "\-k " keyword
Print the manual entry summaries which contain the given
.IR keyword s.
The summaries are gotten from the
.IR whatis\^
database.
(See also
.IR apropos\^ (1).)
.TP
.BI "\-f " filename
Print the manual entry summaries which might pertain to the given
.IR filename s.
Any leading pathname components are stripped from the
.I filename
before the
.I filename
is matched against the summaries.
The summaries are gotten from the
.IR whatis\^
database.
(See also
.IR whatis\^ (1).)
.TP
.B -W
is normally used only by the
.IR makewhatis (1m)
command to build the 
.I whatis
and
.I apropos
databases.
.TP
.B \-r
Treat specified names as regular expressions for searches.
The regular expressions handled are those supported by
.IR regex (3X).
.PD
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.P0
.TP \w'MANPATH\ \ \|\|'u
.B MANPATH
If set,
.B MANPATH
overrides the default manual entry search path.
.B MANPATH
is a colon-separated list of directories where manual subdirectories may
be found.
(See the discussion of
.BR \-M .)
.B \-M
and
.B \-d
will override
.BR MANPATH .
.TP
.B LANG
If set, then for each directory to be searched (as determined by the
.B \-M
option, the
.B MANPATH
variable,
or the default search path), an additional directory is
constructed and searched which has the value of the
.B LC_MESSAGES
locale catagory appended to it.
These language specific directories are searched before the
corresponding generic directory.
.B LC_MESSAGES
may be set either in the environment or will automatically be set
based on the setting of the
.B LANG
variable (see \f4environ\fP(5)).
.TP
.BR PAGER " and " MANPAGER
If set,
.B PAGER
and
.B MANPAGER
specify a program for interactively displaying the output from
.IR man.
.B MANPAGER
will override
.B PAGER
so a program other than the user's standard paging program may be used
for displaying
.I man
output.
If neither
.B PAGER
or 
.B MANPAGER
are set, the command
"ul \-b | more \-s \-f"
is used.  See
.IR ul (1)
and
.IR more (1)
for details on these options.
.TP
.B MANFMTCMD
may be used to specify the full command to format unformatted
man pages.  If set, the other formatter environment variables
are ignored, as is the
.I -T
option.  The command will be given a single argument, which is the
full pathname of the man page that is to be formatted.
.TP
.B TCAT
may be used to specify the command for printing or displaying unformatted
(nroff/troff source) manual pages when the
.B \-t
option is selected.
If
.B TCAT
is not set, the command "lp" is used.
For systems using the BSD
.IR lpr (1)
printing facility,
.B TCAT
should be set to "lpr".
If a troff formatting program which does not output PostScript is used,
.B TCAT
should be set to "lpr <option>" where <option> specifies the proper
printing for the troff output.
.TP
.B NCAT
may be used to specify the command for printing or displaying preformatted
manual pages when the
.B \-t
option is selected.
If
.B NCAT
is not set, the command specified by
.B TCAT
is used.
It is only necessary to set
.B NCAT
if
.B TCAT
is set to "lpr <option>" where <option> specifies printing of some special
(non-ASCII) format.
.TP
.B TROFF
may be used to specify a formatter to use when the
.B \-t
option is selected, and unformatted man pages are processed.
The command specified by
.B TROFF
must output its results to the standard output for
.B TCAT
to work.
If
.B TROFF
is not set, the command "psroff -t" is used.
.TP
.B NROFF
Similar to
.B TROFF
above, used when the
.B -t
option is not specified.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.if n .TP \w'/usr/share/catman/p_man/cat[2-5]/\(**\ \ \|\|'u
.if t .TP \w'/usr/share/catman/local/man[1-8lnop]/\(**\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/share/catman
root directory of on-line reference manual entry tree
.TP
/usr/share/catman/whatis
table of contents and keyword database
.TP
/usr/share/catman/u_man/cat[1,6]/\(**
user manual pages
.TP
/usr/share/catman/a_man/cat[1,4,7]/\(**
system administrator manual pages
.TP
/usr/share/catman/p_man/cat[2-5]/\(**
programmer manual pages
.TP
/usr/share/catman/g_man/cat3/\(**
Graphics Library manual pages
.TP
/usr/share/catman/local/cat[1-8lnop]/\(**
local pre-formatted manual entries
.TP
/usr/catman/local/man[1-8lnop]/\(**
local unformatted
.IR nroff (1)
source manual entries
.TP
/usr/share/man/\(**
additional unformatted manual pages
.TP
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
default macro package used for formatting manual entries
(contained in the
.I "Documentor's Work Bench"
software option)
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
apropos(1),
col(1),
compress(1),
csh(1),
eqn(1),
grep(1),
gzip(1),
lp(1),
lpr(1),
makewhatis(1M),
more(1),
neqn(1),
nroff(1),
pack(1),
pcat(1),
psroff(1),
sh(1),
tbl(1),
troff(1),
ul(1),
whatis(1),
zcat(1),
regex(3X),
ascii(5),
environ(5),
man(5),
term(5).
.SH CAVEATS
.I apropos
.RI ( "man \-k" )
and
.I whatis
.RI ( "man \-f" )
require that the
.I whatis
database be kept up to date by running
.IR makewhatis (1M)
after installing or removing software from the system.  This command
is run by default on system reboot when software is installed or
removed by the
.IR inst (1m)
command.
If the
.I whatis
database is not kept up to date,
.I apropos
.RI ( "man \-k" )
and
.I whatis
.RI ( "man \-f" )
will not find entries for new manual pages and will erroneously refer to
manual pages which no longer exist on the system.
.PP
The
.I /usr/share/catman
directories have all been processed by
.IR nroff (1).
.PP
To format locally added, unformatted manual pages,
.I man
requires
.IR nroff (1),
.IR tbl (1),
and
.IR neqn (1)
or
.IR eqn (1)
and
.IR psroff (1)
with the
.B -t
option;
these are contained in the
.I "Documentor's Work Bench" 
software option, except
.IR psroff (1),
which is part of the
.I Impressario
product.
If they are not found in the search path, a message to
this effect will be printed once per invocation of
.IR man .
The 
.IR awf (1)
command is then searched for, and if found, it will be used instead.
It does not understand all the formatting commands, but is usually
good enough (the
.I -T
option is ignored in this case).
If
.I awf
isn't found either, then any unformatted man pages will be skipped.
.PP
.I psroff
and
.I nroff
may be overridden with environment variables (see above), but
the others may not; they must exist somewhere in the search path,
unless the
.B MANFMTCMD
variable is set.  If none of these can be used, it may be possible
to format the man pages on a system that does have the formatting
commands available.
The resulting formatted versions may be installed on IRISes which do
not have the
.IR "Documentor's Work Bench" .
To create pre-formatted manual pages, use the commands:
.IP
.br
neqn mymanpage.1 | tbl | nroff -man > mymanpage
.br
pack -f mymanpage
.PP
The resulting
.I mymanpage.z
file may be copied into the appropriate
.I /usr/local/man/cat[1-8]
directory.
.PP
.I man
will not locate manual pages in directories with names containing a period (.).
.PP
.I man
may produce some extra matches if man page names have a period (.) in
them, as it matches up to a period, assuming the rest is a suffix.
