'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.mesg @(#)mesg	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} MESG 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} MESG 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} MESG 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} MESG "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
mesg \- permit or deny messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mesg
[
.B y
|
.B n
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mesg\^
with argument
.B n
forbids messages via
.IR write (1)
,
.IR talk
or other utilities
by revoking non-user
write permission on the user's terminal.
The terminal affected is determined by searching for 
the first terminal in the sequence of devices 
associated with standard input, standard output 
and standard error, respectively.
.I mesg\^
with argument
.B y
reinstates permission.
All by itself,
.I mesg\^
reports the current state without changing it.
Processes with appropriate privileges may be able 
to send messages to the terminal independently of the current state.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operands are supported in the POSIX locale:
.TP 
.B y
grant permission to other users to send messages to the terminal device
.TP 
.B n
deny permission to other users to send messages to the terminal device
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables affect the execution of 
\f4mesg\fP:
.TP
\f4LANG\fP
provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null.
If 
.I LANG\^
is unset or null the corresponding value from the implementation-specific
default locale will be used. If any of the internationalization variables 
contains an invalid setting, the utility will behave as if 
none of the variables had been defined.
.TP
\f4LC_ALL\fP
if set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the 
other internationalization variables.
.TP
\f4LC_CTYPE\fP
determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single - as opposed to multi-byte -
characters in arguments).
.TP
\f4LC_MESSAGES\fP
determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.TP
\f4NLSPATH\fP
determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.I LC_MESSAGES.\^
.SH STDOUT
If no operand is specified, \f4mesg\fP displays the current terminal
state in an unspecified format.
.SH STDERR
Used donly for diagnostic messages.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.br
\f40\ \ \fP
receiving messages is allowed
.br
\f41\ \ \fP
receiving messages is not allowed
.br
\f4>1\ \fP
an error occured
.SH FILES
/dev/tty\(**
.br
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
write(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 if messages are receivable,
1 if not, 2 on error.
.\"	@(#)mesg.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
