'\"macro stdmacro
.\" $Id: mkaf.1,v 2.5 1999/05/25 10:29:49 kenmcd Exp $
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} MKAF 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} MKAF 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} MKAF 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} MKAF "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3mkaf\f1 \- create a Performance Co-Pilot archive folio
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/pcp/bin/mkaf\f1
[\f2findopts\f1]
\f2filename\f1 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
A collection of one or more Performance Co-Pilot (see
.BR PCPIntro (1)) 
archive logs may be combined with
.B mkaf
to produce a PCP archive folio and the associated archive
folio control file.
Some PCP tools use
.B mkaf
to create archive folios, e.g.  the ``record'' facility in the
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmview (1)
and
.BR oview (1)
tools, to facilitate playback with
.BR pmafm (1).
.PP
.B mkaf
processes each
.I filename
argument, and if this is a component file from a PCP archive 
that archive is added to the folio.
.PP
If
.I filename
is a directory, then this is searched recursively using
.BR find (1).
Any
.I filename
argument beginning with a ``\-'' is assumed to be a
.BR find (1)
command line option
.RI ( findopts );
the default is
.B -follow
if no
.I findopts
are specified.
.PP
The first named
archive in the folio is assumed to be
associated with the default host for any tool that tries to
replay multiple archives from the folio.
.PP
The folio control file is written to standard output, and has the
following format.
.IP 1. 3n
The first line contains the word
.BR PCPFolio .
.IP 2.
The second line contains the tag
.B Version:
followed by the format version number (currently 1).
.IP 3.
For subsequent lines, blank lines and lines beginning with ``#''
are ignored.
.IP 4.
The line beginning with the tag
.B Created:
documents where and when the folio was created.
.IP 5.
The line beginning with the tag
.B Creator:
identifies the tool which created the folio.
If present, the second argument is the name of a configuration file
that the creator tool could use to replay the archive folio,
e.g. with the
.B replay
command for
.BR pmafm (1).
.IP 6.
This is then followed by one or more lines beginning with the tag
.B Archive:
followed by the hostname and base name of the archive.
.PP
For example
.ti+5n
$ mkaf /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo
.br
might produce the following folio control file.
.PP
.ftCW
.nf
PCPFolio
Version: 1
# use pmafm(1) to process this PCP archive folio
#
Created: on gonzo at Tue Jul  2 03:35:54 EST 1996
Creator: mkaf
#               Host                    Basename
#
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960627
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960628
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960629
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960630
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960701
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960701.00.10
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960701.05.25
Archive:        gonzo                   /var/adm/pcplog/gonzo/960702.00.10
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmafm (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmview (1)
and
.BR oview (1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Some informational messages, warnings and pathological conditions are
reported on standard error.
