'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MKDEPEND 1 local "Silicon Graphics, Inc."
.SH NAME
mkdepend \- compute header file dependencies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkdepend
.RB [ \-c
.IR compiler ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR sedprog ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR force ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR count ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR sentinel ]
.I depfile
.RI [ file
\&...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkdepend
infers
.IR make (1)
dependencies from source containing C #include directives.
It invokes
.IR cc (1)
with the
.B \-M
option to compile dependencies given a list of source
.IR files ,
and edits the generated dependency information into
.IR depfile ,
which may be a makefile or a make include file.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option substitutes 
.IR compiler ,
which may be an elaborate, quoted invocation of a compiler, for the default
.BR "\s-1cc \-M\s0" .
This option is useful in an environment where the
.B \-D
and
.B \-I
options of
.I cc
are used to govern header file inclusion.
.PP
The
.B \-e
option passes an editing program to
.IR sed (1),
which is applied to raw dependency information of the following form:
.PP
.Ex
object: source
.Ee
.PP
Thus one may substitute pathname prefixes with envariable parameters,
or rewrite the conventional
.B \&.o
object suffix.
.PP
The
.B \-f
option causes
.I mkdepend
to add a dependent named
.I force
to each target file's dependency list.
Using
.B "\s-1\-f '$(FORCE)'\s0"
and setting
.B \s-1FORCE=FORCE\s0
in a make's environment, one may rebuild certain
objects without first removing them.
This example assumes that no file named
.B \s-1FORCE\s0
exists in any of
.IR make 's
current working directories.
.PP
Normally, existing dependencies are deleted from the makefile.
The
.B \-i
option causes
.I mkdepend
to preserve old dependencies, replacing only those involving targets
based on the
.I file
arguments.
The following rule incrementally updates a dependency file named
.BR \s-1Makedepend\s0 :
.PP
.Ex 2
Makedepend: $(CFILES)
	mkdepend \-c "$(CC) $(CFLAGS) -M" \-i $@ $?
.Ee
.PP
The
.B \-r
option causes
.I mkdepend
to read raw dependencies from its
.I file
arguments, or from standard input if no
.I file
arguments are given.
The
.B \-p
option is like
.BR \-r ,
but also collapses dependencies of targets in subdirectories where possible.
The
.I count
argument specifies the number of subdirectories.
For example,
.PP
.Ex 3
subdir1/object: source
subdir2/object: source
subdir3/object: source
.Ee
.PP
would be rewritten by
.B "\s-1mkdepend \-p 3\s0"
as
.Ex
object: source
.Ee
.PP
.B \-p
is useful in conjunction with
.IR make 's
.B \s-1VPATH\s0
variable.
.PP
The
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-p ,
and
.B \-r
options override one another.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option inserts its
.I sentinel
argument in the comment lines which delimit dependencies in
.IR depfile .
This option is useful for maintaining multiple sets of dependencies
in a single file.
.SH NOTES
This command will be removed from the next major release.  Use
cc -MDupdate instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cc(1), cpp(1), make(1), sed(1)
