'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.mkdir @(#)mkdir	41.13 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} mkdir 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} mkdir 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} mkdir 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} mkdir "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4mkdir\f1 \- make directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 4
mkdir [\-m \f2mode\f4] [\-p]
\f2dirname \f1. . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mkdir\f1
creates the specified directories in mode 777
[possibly altered by 
\f4umask\f1(1)].
.P
Standard entries in a directory,
\f4\&.\f1,
for the directory itself,
and 
\f4\&..\f1,
for its parent
are made automatically.
\f4mkdir\f1
cannot create these entries by name.
Creation of a directory requires write permission in the
parent directory.
.P
The owner ID and group ID of the new directories are
set to the process's real user ID and group ID, respectively.
.P
The \f4mkdir\f1 command has the following options:
.TP 11
\f4\-m\f1
specifies the \f2mode\f1 to be
used for new directories.
Choices for \f2mode\f1 can be found in 
\f4chmod\f1(1).
.TP 11
\f4\-p\f1
creates all the non-existing parent directories first.
.SH EXAMPLE
To create the subdirectory structure
\f4ltr/jd/jan\f1,
type:
.sp.5
	\f4mkdir \-p ltr/jd/jan\f1
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore.abi\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1 (5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4sh\f1(1), \f4rm\f1(1), \f4umask\f1(1),
\f4intro\f1(2), \f4mkdir\f1(2), \f4mkdirp\f1(3G)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4mkdir\f1
returns exit code 0 if all directories given in the
command line were made successfully.
Otherwise, it prints a diagnostic and returns non-zero.
.Ee
