.TH mpadmin 1
.SH NAME
mpadmin \- control and report processor status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-n\f1
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-u\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-r\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-c\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-f\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-I\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-U\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-D\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-C\f1[processor]
.sp .8v
\f3mpadmin\f1 \f3\-s\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mpadmin
provides control/information of processor status.
.PP
Exactly one argument is accepted by
.I mpadmin
at each invocation.
The following arguments are accepted:
.PP
.TP 13
.B \-n
Report which processors are physically configured.
The numbers of the physically configured processors are
written to the standard output, one processor number per line.
Processors are numbered beginning from 0.
.TP
.B \-u\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the numbers of the processors
that are available to schedule unrestricted processes are
written to the standard output.
Otherwise,
.I mpadmin\f1
enables the processor number
.I processor
to run any unrestricted processes.
.TP
.B \-r\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the numbers of the processors
that are restricted from running any processes
(except those assigned via the
.IR sysmp (MP_MUSTRUN)
function, the
.IR runon (1)
command, or because of hardware necessity)
are written to the standard output.
Otherwise,
.I mpadmin
restricts the processor numbered
.IR processor .
.TP
.B \-c\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the number of the processor
that handles the operating system software clock is
written to the standard output.
Otherwise, operating system software clock handling is moved to the
processor numbered
.IR processor .
See
.IR timers (5)
for more details.
.TP
.B \-f\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the number of the processor
that handles the operating system fast clock is
written to the standard output.
Otherwise, operating system fast clock handling is moved to the
processor numbered
.IR processor .
See
.IR ftimer (1)
and
.IR timers (5)
for a description of the fast clock usage.
.TP
.B \-I\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the numbers of the processors that are isolated
are written to the standard output.
Otherwise,
.I mpadmin
isolates the processor numbered
.IR processor .
An isolated processor is restricted as by the -r argument.
In addition, instruction cache and Translation Lookaside Buffer
synchronization are blocked, and synchronization is delayed
until a system service is requested.
.TP
.B \-U\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the numbers of the processors that are not isolated are
written to the standard output.
Otherwise,
.I mpadmin
unisolates the processor numbered
.IR processor .
.TP
.B \-D\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the numbers of the processors that are not
running the clock scheduler are written to the standard output.
Otherwise,
.I mpadmin
disables the clock scheduler on the processor numbered
.IR processor .
This makes that processor nonpreemptive, so that normal IRIX
process time slicing is no longer enforced.
Processes that run on a non-preemptive processor are not preempted
because of timer interrupts.
They are preempted only when requesting a system service that
causes them to wait, or that makes a higher-priority process runnable
(for example, posting a semaphore).
.TP
.B \-C\f1[\f2processor\f1]
When no
.I processor
is specified, the numbers of the processors that are
running the clock scheduler are written to the standard output.
Otherwise,
.I mpadmin\f1
enables the clock scheduler on the processor numbered
.IR processor .
Processes on a preemptive processor can be preempted at the end of
their time slice.
.TP
.B \-s\f1
A summary of the unrestricted, restricted, isolated, preemptive
and clock processor numbers is written to the standard output.
.SH SEE ALSO
ftimer(1),
runon(1),
sysmp(2),
timers(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When an argument specifies a \f2processor\f1,
0 is returned on success, -1 on failure.
Otherwise, the number of processors associated with \f2argument\f1
is returned.
.SH WARNINGS
It is not possible to restrict or isolate all processors.
Processor 0 must never be restricted or isolated.
.SH BUGS
Changing the clock processor may cause the system to lose a small
amount of system time.
.PP
When a processor is not provided as an argument, mpadmin's
exit value will not exceed 255.  If more than 255 processors 
exist, mpadmin will return 0.
