'\"macro stdmacro
.TH MT 1
.SH NAME
mt \- magnetic tape manipulating program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mt
[
.B \-f
.BR tapename
]
command
[ count ]
.br
.B mt
[
.B \-t
.BR tapename
]
command
[ count ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mt
is used to give commands to the magnetic tape drives.
By default,
.I mt
performs the requested operation using
.IR /dev/nrtape .
Normally the operations are performed once.
Some operations may be performed multiple times by specifying
.IR count .
For all others,
.IR count
is ignored.
.I count
is parsed with the
.IR strtol (3)
library routine, which means that values with leading 0's are taken
as octal, those with leading 0x or 0x are taken to be hex, and other's
are taken to be decimal.
.PP
To use an alternate device, one of the options
.B \-f
.BR tapename
or
.B \-t
.BR tapename
may be specified.
If one of these options is not used, then
.I mt
will check for an environment variable
.B TAPE
and use that, if set.  Otherwise the default device,
.I /dev/nrtape
is used.
.PP
The
.BR tapename
field can also reference a remote tape device. A remote
tape device name has the form:
.sp
.ti +0.5i
.IR [user @ ] system:/dev/???
.sp
Where
.I system
is the remote system,
.I /dev/???
is the particular drive on the remote system (raw,
rewinding, non-rewinding, etc.),
and the optional
.I user
is the login name to be used
on the remote system (the default is the current login name).
The interface requires that the device portion of the name start with 
.I /dev
in order to be considered as a potential remote device.
.PP
Note that when using a remote tape device, many commands may not
be supported by machines not running IRIX, and the meaning of some
of the status and position bits for the
.B status
command may differ.
.PP
If the rewind device is used, some commands are (long)
null operations.  In particular, the 
.B feom
and
.B fsf
commands will result in the tape being positioned at BOT when the rewind
device is used, rather than the requested position.
.PP
The available commands are listed below.  Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command
need be specified.  Note that not all commands are implemented
for all devices.  For most of the commands that accept a count,
the default is 1, if not specified.  Not all commands are
implemented by all devices or device drivers.  Some may return
an error, others may return with no error, but not do anything
(such as attempting to retension a tape on a DAT drive).
.PP
For those cases where the description seems unclear, it may
be helpful to refer to the comments in
.BR /usr/include/sys/mtio.h .
.PP
.I mt
returns a 0 exit status when the operation was successful,
a 1 if a command was unrecognized,
and a 2 if a operation failed.
.I mt
without any arguments defaults to
.BR help .
.sp
.TP
.B weof
Write 
.I count
end-of-file marks at the current position on the tape.
.TP
.B wsetmk
Write 
.I count
setmarks at the current position on the tape; currently
only supported for DAT, setmarks are intended for
grouping tape files into sets.
.TP
.B fsf
Forward space
.I count
tape files.  The resulting position is on the EOT side of the filemark.
.TP
.B fsr
Forward space 
.I count
records (blocks).
.TP
.B bsf
Backspace
.I count
tape files.  The resulting position is on the BOT side of the filemark.
.TP
.B bsr
Backspace 
.I count
records (blocks).
.TP
.B spsetmk
space 
.I count
setmarks.  The count is negative to space towards BOT, and
positive to space towards EOT.
.TP
.B rewind
Rewind the tape to BOT, or in the case of partitioned tapes, to the
beginning of the current partition (it does NOT change partitions).
.TP
.B sppart
Space to the given partition.  Currently only supported for DAT tape.
The resulting position is the beginning of the partition, if it exists.
Only partitions 0 and 1 are supported for DDS format DAT tapes.
Partition 1 is the one closest to BOT.  Once within a partition,
all other commands (except sppart or mkpart) apply to that partition
only, including rewind, erase, and feom.
.TP
.B mkpart
Create a partitioned tape.  Currently only supported for DAT tape.
The argument specifies the size in megabytes of the partition closest
to BOT, which is known as partition 1.  That part of the tape is written
and checked for errors.  This is intended primarily so that tape directories
may be written at the beginning of the tape with no possibility of overwriting
the primary data on the tape.  An argument of 0 creates a single partition
tape again.
.TP
.B feom
Forward space to end of recorded data.
This allows appending new tape files to a tape that already
contains data.  For partitioned tapes, positions to the end of
recorded data in the current partition.
.TP
.B offline
Rewind and unload the tape from the drives heads, allowing removal
of the tape.  The tape is not ejected for most drive types.  Use the
.B unload
option to force ejection (for drives that support ejection or
similar behavior; not all drives do).
.TP
.B unload
Inform  the drive it is OK for the tape to be removed.  This is
meaningful only for drives such as the 8mm drive that enable and disable
the eject button under software control.  Some drives will otherwise
not allow tape removal if the tape hasn't been previously rewound.
If the drive supports it, the tape is ejected.
.TP
.B erase
Erase from current position to EOT.  This can be very slow for some
tape drives (up to 2 hours for 8mm tape drives with 2.3Gb capacity).
Note that for QIC drives,
.B all
tracks are erased simultaneously (QIC writes in serpentine fashion,
with anywhere from 9-30 tracks, currently).  This means that one should
not expect to be able to erase just the "tail end" of a QIC tape, without
losing most, if not all, of the data on the tape.  The erase function
is not supported on DAT drives when they are in audio mode. The erase 
function is not supported on Ampex DST drives.
.TP
.B exist
Exit with status 0 if the drive exists, otherwise non-zero; this is
primarily for use in scripts.
.TP
.B recerron
Enable soft error reporting for drives that are very verbose about
them, such as Cipher 540S; this persists until explicitly turned off.
The default is
.BR recerroff .
.TP
.B recerroff
Disable soft error reporting for drives that are very verbose about
them, such as Cipher 540S.  This is the default behavior.
.TP
.B sili
Suppress illegal length indicator (this occurs on tapes like the
8mm tape drive when a request is made to read fewer bytes than
a block was written with, when in variable block mode).
The default is to return a short count, when set, no short count
will be returned, and the rest of the data in the block will be
skipped.  This is off by default.  This persists until explicitly
turned off or the tape is changed.
.TP
.B eili
Reverses the effect of
.B sili
(returns to default).
.TP
.B audio
Set the tape device to be in audio mode if the argument is non-zero,
or in data mode (the default) if it is zero.  This is currently supported
only for DAT tapes, and allows the transfer of digital audio music
to and from the drive over the SCSI bus.  In this mode, many of the
data commands, such as weof are not allowed.  The variable blocksize
tape device should always be used when doing i/o in audio mode.
The other tape parameters, such as recording frequency, program number,
etc. must be transferred to the drive as part of the data stream.  In
addition, rewinds and seeks return immediately in audio mode, and further
opens will block until they are complete.  See the
.IR tps (7m)
manual page for more information.
.TP
.B seek
Seek to the block given as the argument.  For multiple partition tapes,
this is relative to start of partition, otherwise to BOT.  When in audio
mode, this specifies the program number (0 - 799) rather than a block
number. The argument block number should be provided as a SCSI logical
block number for SCSI tape drives, except for the STK drives, for which 
the argument is the block number in vendor unique format.
.TP
.B status
Print status information about the tape unit. It is not necessary to have
media physically loaded to obtain status.
The position information from the
.I mt_dposn
field of the structure returned by the
.B MTIOCGET
is printed for all drive types.
For
.B tps
(SCSI) drives, status information from the
.I mt_erreg
is also printed, which gives addition information about tape status.
The current block position provided is the SCSI logical block address 
in all cases, except for the STK drives, which report the position 
in vendor unique block number format.
The numeric field "Status" contains the mt_dposn bits in the low
16 bits, and the mt_erreg values in the upper 16 bits.
These bits are defined in
.IR /usr/include/sys/tpsc.h .
.sp 1
The meaning of the bits that are driver specific may vary from release
to release, and are primarily useful when reporting tape problems
to the customer support organization. 
.TP
.B blksize
Print the recommended block size for io, which is used by tar, cpio,
bru, etc.  A tape cartridge need
not be physically loaded to obtain default block size, except that
current block sizes will not be accurate in this case.
The maximum, minimum, and current blocksizes are also reported; they may
all be the same if the drive does not support variable block sizes.
.TP
.B setblksz
Sets the block size to be used when in fixed blocksize mode.  Most drives
that support variable sized blocks also support use of different sized
blocks in the fixed block mode.  For example, this could be used to
read 8 mm tapes written with a fixed block size of 512 bytes, rather than
1024, while still reading more than 512 bytes per system call.  If this
wasn't done, tape errors would occur.  This size remains set until the next tape
change, or until the drive is used in variable block mode.
.TP
.B retension
Retension the tape in the drive.  This may be a null operation on
some drives, such as DAT.
.TP
.B help
Print a summary of the available options.
.SH FILES
.br
/dev/nrtape	default (no rewind) tape device
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mtio(7), rmt(1M), rmtops(3), tps(7m)
