'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NEWGRP 1
.SH NAME
newgrp \- log in to a new group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B newgrp
.RB [ \|\-\| ]
[ group ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I newgrp\^
changes a user's group identification.
The user remains logged in
and the current directory is unchanged,
but calculations of access permissions to files are
performed with respect to the
new real and effective group
.SM IDs\*S.
The user is always given a new shell, replacing the current shell,
by
.IR newgrp ,
regardless of whether it terminated successfully or
due to an error condition (i.e.,
unknown group).
.PP
Exported variables retain their values after invoking
.IR newgrp ;
however, all unexported variables are either reset to their
default value or set to null.
System variables (such as PS1, PS2, PATH, MAIL, and HOME),
unless exported by the system
or explicitly exported by
the user, are reset to default values.
For example, a user has a primary prompt string (PS1) other
than \f3$\fP (default) and has not exported PS1.
After an invocation of
.I newgrp ,
successful or not,
their PS1 will now be set to the default prompt string \f3$\fP.
Note that the shell command
.I export
(see \f2sh\fP(1))
is the method to export variables so
that they retain their assigned value when invoking new shells.
.PP
With no arguments,
.I newgrp\^
changes the group identification back to
the group specified in the user's password file entry.
This is a way to exit the effect of
an earlier
.I newgrp
command.
.PP
If the first argument to
.I newgrp
is a
.BR \- ,
the environment is changed to what would be expected if the
user actually logged in again as a member of the new group.
.PP
A password is not demanded if any of the following are true:
.IP
the caller is superuser, 
.IP
the caller's group id (from \f3/etc/passwd\fP) matches the group's id, or
.IP
the caller is a member of the group (i.e. listed in 
the fourth field of the group entry in \f3/etc/group\fP).
.P
If none of the above conditions are met and the
group has a password, the user is asked for it.  If the group
does not have a password, the requested group-change is denied.
.SH FILES
/etc/group		system's group file
.br
/etc/passwd		system's password file
.SH SEE ALSO
login(1), multgrps(1), id(1), groups(1),
group(4),
passwd(4),
environ(5)
.SH BUGS
There is no convenient way to enter a password into
.BR /etc/group .
Use of group passwords is not encouraged, because,
by their very nature, they encourage poor security practices.
Group passwords may disappear in the future.
.\"	@(#)newgrp.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
