'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.\" $Id: newhelp.1,v 2.9 1999/05/25 10:29:49 kenmcd Exp $
.if \nX=0 .ds x} NEWHELP 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} NEWHELP 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} NEWHELP 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} NEWHELP "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3newhelp\f1 \- generate a performance metrics help database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/pcp/bin/newhelp\f1
[\f3\-V\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-o\f1 \f2outputfile\f1]
[\f3\-v\f1 \f2version\f1]
[\f2file\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B newhelp
generates the
Performance Co-Pilot
help text files used by
Performance Metric Domain Agents (PMDAs).
.PP
Normally
.B newhelp
operates on the default Performance Metrics Namespace (PMNS), however
if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is loaded
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.PP
When there is only one input file,
the base name of the new database is derived from the name of the input
.IR file ,
otherwise the
.B \-o
flag must be given to explicitly name the database.
If no input files are supplied,
.B newhelp
reads from the standard input stream,
in which case the
.B \-o
flag must be given.
.PP
If the output file name is determined to be
.BR foo ,
.B newhelp
will create
.B foo.dir
and
.BR foo.pag .
.PP
There are currently two help text file formats - the format used can be
specified using the
.B \-v
option.
Previous versions of PCP used
.BR ndbm (3B)
files to store the help text.
This format may be selected using
.I version
.BR 1 ,
but is not recommended unless the associated PMDA uses the older protocols
and is linked with
.IR libpcp_pmda.so.1 .
This is the default version so that pre-existing invocations of
.B newhelp 
will still work the same way.
.PP
The current PCP version uses a more compact storage scheme for
the help text files, and this may be selected using
.I version
.BR 2 .
.RE
.PP
The
.B \-V
flag causes verbose messages to be printed while
.B newhelp
is parsing its input.
.PP
The first line of each entry in a help source file consists of an
\&``@''
character beginning the line
followed by a space and then
the performance metric name and a one line description of the metric.
Following lines (up to the next line beginning with ``@''
or end of file) may contain a verbose help description.
E.g.
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
#
# This is an example of newhelp's input syntax
#
@ kernel.all.cpu.idle CPU idle time
A cumulative count of the number of milliseconds
of CPU idle time, summed over all processors.
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
Lines beginning with ``#''
are ignored, as are blank lines in the file before the first ``@''.
The verbose help text is optional.
.PP
As a special case,
a ``metric'' name of the form 
.I NNN.MM
(for numeric 
.I NNN
and 
.IR MM )
is interpreted as an
instance domain identification,
and the text describes the instance domain.
.SH FILES
.nrPD 0
.TP 24
.BI /var/pcp/pmns/ *
default PMNS specification files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chkhelp (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmLookupInDomText (3)
and
.BR pmLookupText (3).
