'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} NEWLABEL 1 "TrIRIX User Commands" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} NEWLABEL 1 "TrIRIX User Commands"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} NEWLABEL 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} NEWLABEL 1 "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
newlabel \- run a process at another label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B newlabel
[
-EFIOmt
]
[
-ah
dir
]
[
-efio path
] [ label ] [ cmd [ arg .\|.\|. ] ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I newlabel\^
allows the user to run a process at another label without logging off.
To prevent inappropriate transfers of information, all open file descriptors
are closed before the new process is invoked.
Unless the invoked by the Superuser with one or more of the
.BR -E ,
.BR -F ,
.BR -I ,
or
.B -O 
options,
the stdin, stdout, and stderr are closed and reopened
after the label is changed.
The default path used is
.IR /dev/tty ,
but may be changed with the
.BR -e ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -i ,
and
.B -o
options.
If the path cannot be opened
.I /dev/null
is opened.
.PP
If a
.B cmd
is given, it is invoked using
.IR /bin/sh .
If the
.B cmd
is followed by one or more
.BR args ,
the entire string of
.B cmd
plus
.B args
should be quoted to ensure that it is interpreted by
.IR /bin/sh ,
rather than the current shell.
If no
.B cmd
is given, the user's preferred shell is invoked.
Note that in most cases, a shell running with a different label will not be
able to open
.IR /dev/tty .
.PP
The
.I newlabel
command has the following options:
.TP
.B  \-E
Do not close and reopen standard error.
This option is restricted to the Superuser.
.TP
.B  \-F
Do not close and reopen standard error, input, or output.
This option is restricted to the Superuser.
.TP
.B  \-I
Do not close and reopen standard input.
This option is restricted to the Superuser.
.TP
.B  \-O
Do not close and reopen standard output.
This option is restricted to the Superuser.
.TP
.B  \-a
Run the specified command at each label at which there is a sub-directory in
.BR dir .
The sub-directory check is done with the process label set to
.B msenmldhigh/mintequal
in case
.B dir
has a moldy label.
This option is restricted to the Superuser.
.TP
.B  \-e
Use the following
.B path
instead of
.I /dev/tty
as the standard error.
.TP
.B  \-f
Use the following
.B path
instead of
.I /dev/tty
as the standard error, input, and output.
.TP
.B  \-h
Run the specified command at each label at which there is a sub-directory in
.B dir
with neither equal sensitivity nor equal integrity.
The sub-directory check is done with the process label set to
.B msenmldhigh/mintequal
in case
.B dir
has a moldy label.
This option is restricted to the Superuser.
.TP
.B  \-i
Use the following
.B path
instead of
.I /dev/tty
as the standard input.
.TP
.B  \-m
Use a label exactly like that on the current process, except that the new
label is assured to be
.IR moldy .
This option excludes the
.B -t
option.
.TP
.B  \-o
Use the following
.B path
instead of
.I /dev/tty
as the standard output.
.TP
.B  \-t
Use a label exactly like that on the current process, except that the new
label is assured not to be
.IR moldy .
This option excludes the
.B -m
option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To obtain a shell with
.I moldy
characteristics,
execute:
.sp
.RS
newlabel -m
.RE
.sp
To look at the current directy without
.I moldy
characteristics when the current process has them,
execute:
.sp
.RS
newlabel -t ls -l
.RE
To execute \fIps\fR(1) at the system high label with no integrity,
execute:
.sp
.RS
newlabel msenhigh/mintlow ps -el
.RE
To do the same thing, but write the result into a file,
execute:
.sp
.RS
newlabel -o /tmp/ps.out msenhigh/mintlow ps -el
.RE
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta 1.6i
/bin/csh	default command
/dev/tty	default output
/dev/null	secondary output
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
su(1m),
login(1),
.br
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.sgi
