'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.news @(#)news	41.7 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} news 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} news 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} news 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} news "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4news\f1 \- print news items
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4news\f1
[
\f4\-a\f1
] [
\f4\-n\f1
] [
\f4\-s\f1
] [ \f2items\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4news\fP
is used to keep the user informed of current events.
By convention, these events are described by files in
the directory
\f4/var/news\f1.
.PP
When invoked without arguments,
\f4news\fP
prints the contents of all current files in
\f4/var/news\f1,
most recent first,
with each preceded by an appropriate header.
\f4news\fP
stores the ``currency'' time
as the modification date of a file named
\f4\&.news_time\f1
in the user's home directory (the identity of this directory
is determined by the environment variable
\f4$HOME\*S\f1);
only files more recent than
this currency time are considered ``current.''
.PP
.TP
\f4\-a\f1
option causes
\f4news\fP
to print all items, regardless of currency.
In this case, the stored time is not changed.
.TP
\f4\-n\f1
option causes
\f4news\fP
to report the names of the current items without
printing their contents, and without changing
the stored time.
.TP
\f4\-s\f1
option causes
\f4news\fP
to report how many current items exist, without
printing their names or contents, and without changing
the stored time.
It is useful to include such an invocation of
\f4news\fP
in one's
\f4\&.profile\f1
file, or in the system's
\f4/etc/profile\f1.
.PP
All other arguments
are assumed to be specific news items that are to
be printed.
.PP
If a
.I delete\^
is typed during the printing of a news item, printing stops and the
next item is started.
Another
.I delete\^
within one second of the first
causes the program to terminate.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/etc/profile\f1
.TP
\f4/var/news/\f1\(**
.TP
\f4\&\s-1$HOME\s+1/\f4.\fPnews_time\f1
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4profile\fP(4), \f4environ\fP(5)
.\"	@(#)news.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
