.TH newsess 1
.SH NAME
newsess \- start a new array session
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4newsess\fP [\f4-l\fP] [\f4-g\fP] [\f4-h\fP \f2ASH\fP] [\f4-p\fP \c
\f2project\fP] [[\f4-s\fP] \f2shell-args\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2newsess\f1 command starts a new array session.
The user remains logged in and the current directory is unchanged.
If the change is successful, the user will be given a new shell.
The original shell, and any processes it may have had running, will
remain alive and associated with the original array session.
Thus, exiting the new shell will return the user to the original
shell and original array session.
.PP
By default, the new array session will be a global array session
(see \f2array_sessions\f1(5) for more information on this subject).
Some systems are capable of generating their own global array session
handles internally, while others must request a global handle from
an array services daemon.
If the \f4-l\f1 option is specified, the system will \f2not\f1 try to
contact an array services daemon; this will result in a purely local
array session handle on systems that do not internally generate
global handles.
On the other hand, the \f4-g\f1 option will \f2force\f1 the system to
obtain a global array session handle from an array services daemon,
even if the system could have generated a global handle internally.
In this case, \f2newsess\f1 will fail if an array services daemon is
not available.
The \f4-g\f1 and \f4-l\f1 options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
The \f4-p\f1 option can be used to set the new array session's project
to \f2project\f1.
By default, the new array session will belong to the same project as
the current array session.
If the user is not the superuser, then the user must be authorized
for \f2project\f1 in the \f3/etc/project\f1 file.
.PP
The superuser may force a specific array session handle to be used by
specifying the \f4-h \f2ASH\f1 option.
An error will occur if \f2ASH\f1 is already in use by another array session.
The \f4-g\f1 and \f4-h\f1 options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
The first unrecognized command line argument, and all remaining arguments
that follow it, will be passed to the new shell as arguments.
The \f2newsess\f1 option \f4-s\f1 can be used to force the rest of the
command line to be treated as shell arguments.
This is useful if it is necessary to pass an option to the shell that also
happens to be a valid \f2newsess\f1 option.
When using shells like \f2sh\f1(1), an argument of the
form \f4-c \f2string\f1 executes \f2string\f1 via the shell and an
\f2argument\f1 of \f4-r\f1 will give the user a restricted shell.
.SH NOTES
The array services daemon (\f2arrayd\f1(1M)) must be running
on the local machine in order to start a new global array session.
It is not required for a new local array session.
.SH SEE ALSO
newproj(1),
newarraysess(2),
array_services(5),
array_sessions(5).
