'\"macro stdmacro
.TH NPRI 1 local "Silicon Graphics, Inc."
.SH NAME
npri \- modify the scheduling priority of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B npri
.RB [ " -w "] " "|
.RB [ " \-r" " priority [" " \-s" " policy ] ] |"
.RB [ " \-n" " nice ] |"
.RB [ " \-t" " slice ]"
.RB [ " \-p" " pid ]"
.br
.B npri
.RB [ " -w "] " "|
.RB [ " \-r" " priority [" " \-s" " policy ] ] |"
.RB [ " \-n" " nice ] |"
.RB [ " \-t" " slice ]"
[ cmd args ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command allows the super-user to modify certain scheduling parameters
of a process or to create a new process with specific scheduling parameters.
For a detailed description of how the parameters affect the scheduling
of a process, please see the
.IR sched_setscheduler (2)
manual page.
If
.I npri
is invoked without reference to a specific process or command to execute,
it simply invokes a copy of the user's shell, as specified by the
.SM SHELL
environment variable, with the scheduling characteristics specified.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP 10
.BI \-w 
This option makes the process weightless. A weightless process
executes at a priority strictly less than any other process
in the system.
.TP 10
.BI \-r  " priority"
This option sets the priority of a process. For real-time policies
(see -s) the valid priority range is 0 to 255, while the time-share
policy accepts priorities ranging from 1 to 40. When used without
the -s option, npri will attempt to reset the priority of the
specified process according to its current (or inherited) policy.
.TP 10
.BI \-s  " policy"
This option sets the scheduling policy of a process. The supported
policies are FIFO and RR for real-time and TS for timeshare. Both
the policy and priority will be inherited by any new children of
the process.
Care should be used when assigning real-time policies, since
such a process is not preemptable by normal interactive processes.
Refer to
.IR realtime (5)
for more details.
.TP 10
.BI \-n " nice"
This option sets the absolute nice value of a process.
The nice value affects how normal UNIX priority calculations are made.
The allowable range of nice values is 0 to 39.
Refer to
.IR nice (2)
for more information.
.TP 10
.BI \-t " slice"
This option sets the time-slice for the process, in terms of the basic
kernel clock frequency (called \f2ticks\f1).
The 4D Series machines use a clock frequency of 100 hertz,
so one \f2tick\f1 is 10 milliseconds.
For example, a slice value of 3 gives a 30 millisecond time slice.
The time slice value will be inherited by any new children of the process.
.TP 10
.BI \-h " priority"
This option has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
Please use the -r and -s options to achieve the desired effect.
.TP 10
.BI \-p " pid"
This option names a specific process whose priority is to be altered.
This makes it possible to change priorities of a running process.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nice(2), schedctl(2), sched_setscheduler(2), realtime(5).
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.sgi
