'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.od $Revision: 1.7 $
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} od 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} od 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} od 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} od "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc - All Rights Reserved.
.SH NAME
\f4od\f1 \- octal dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4od\f1 [ \f4\-v\f1 ] [ \f4\-A\f1 \f2addr_base\f1 [ \f4\-j\f1 \f2skip\f1 ]
[ \f4\-N\f1 \f2count\f1 ] [ \f4\-t\f1 \f2type_str\f1 ] ... [ \f2file\f1 ... ]

\f4od\f1
[
\f4\-bcDdFfOoSsvXx\f1
] [
.I file
] [ [
\f4+\f1
]\f2offset\f1[
\f4\&. \f1|
\f4ll \f1|
\f4LL \f1|
\f4b\f1 ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4od\fP
displays a list of \f2file\f1s
in one or more formats,
as selected by user supplied arguments.
If no such argument is given,
\f4\-t\f1 \f2o2\f1 (or \f4\-o\f1)
is default.
If no
.I file
is specified, the standard input is used.
For the purposes of this description,
``word''
refers to a 16-bit unit, independent of the word size
of the machine;
``long word'' refers to a 32-bit unit, and
``double long word'' refers to a 64-bit unit.
\f4od\f1 processes supplementary code set characters
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
The output format can be specified with one or more type strings
(\f2type_str\f1) and/or with format options.

A type string is specified with a \f4\-t\f1 option followed
by one or more format descriptions. Each format description
consists of a type character followed by an optional length
specifier. The type characters, \f4a\f1, \f4c\f1, \f4d\f1, \f4f\f1,
\f4o\f1, \f4u\f1, and \f4x\f1 specify \f2named character\f1, \f2character\f1,
\f2signed decimal\f1, \f2floating point\f1, \f2octal\f1, \f2unsigned decimal\f1
and \f2hexadecimal\f1, respectively. Type characters \f4d\f1, \f4f\f1, \f4o\f1,
\f4u\f1, and \f4x\f1 can be followed by an optional unsigned decimal
integer that specifies the number of bytes to be transformed by
each instance of the output type. Type character \f4f\f1 can instead be
followed by an optional \f4F\f1, \f4D\f1, or \f4L\f1 indicating
that the conversion should be applied to an item of type \f2float\f1,
\f2double\f1 or \f2long double\f1, respectively. Type characters \f4d\f1,
\f4o\f1, \f4u\f1, and \f4x\f1 can instead be followed by an optional \f4C\f1,
\f4S\f1, \f4I\f1, or \f4L\f1 indicating that the conversion should
be applied to an item of type \f2char\f1, \f2short\f1, \f2int\f1 or
\f2long\f1, respectively.
For example:
.sp .5
.RS 8
\f4-t o2afD\f1
.br
will interpet: two byte units in octal, named characters, and floating
point numbers of double precision.
.RE

The meanings of the format options are:
.TP 6
\f4\-b\f1
Interpret bytes in octal.
.TP
\f4\-c\f1
Interpret bytes as single-byte characters.
Multibyte characters are treated as non-graphic characters.
Certain non-graphic characters appear as C-language escapes:
null=\f4\e0\fP,
backspace=\f4\eb\fP,
form-feed=\f4\ef\fP,
new-line=\f4\en\fP,
return=\f4\er\fP,
tab=\f4\et\fP;
others appear as 3-digit octal numbers.
For example:
.sp .5
.RS 8
\f4echo "hello world" | od -c\f1
.br
\f40000000   h   e   l   l   o       w   o   r   l   d  \en\f1
.br
\f40000014\f1
.RE
.TP
\f4\-D\f1
Interpret long words in unsigned decimal.
.TP
\f4\-d\f1
Interpret words in unsigned decimal.
.TP
\f4\-F\f1
Interpret double long words
in extended precision.
.TP
\f4\-f\f1
Interpret long words
in floating point.
.TP
\f4\-h\f1
Same as \f4\-x\f1.
.TP
\f4\-O\f1
Interpret long words
in unsigned octal.
.TP
\f4\-o\f1
Interpret words in octal.
.TP
\f4\-S\f1
Interpret long words
in signed decimal.
.TP
\f4\-s\f1
Interpret words in signed decimal.
.TP
\f4\-v\f1
Show all data (verbose).  If this option is not given,
identical output lines are not shown; the first omitted line
is printed as
.B *
to indicate identical data.
.TP
\f4\-X\f1
Interpret long words in hex.
.TP
\f4\-x\f1
Interpret words in hex.
.PP

\f2offset\f1 specifies an offset
from the beginning of \f2file\f1 where
the display will begin.
\f2offset\f1 is normally interpreted
as octal bytes.
If \f4.\f1 is appended, \f2offset\f1 is interpreted in
decimal.
If \f4b\f1 is appended, \f2offset\f1 is interpreted in
blocks of 512 bytes.
if \f4ll\f1 or \f4LL\f1 is appended, the offset will be displayed in 64 bit format.
This allows proper display of offsets larger than 2 Gigabytes.
If \f2file\f1 is omitted,
\f2offset\f1 must be preceded by
\f4+\f1.
\f4Warning\f1: if none of the \f4\-A\f1, \f4\-j\f1, \f4\-N\f1 or \f4\-t\f1
options are used and there are 2 or less operands, then the last operand
will be considered an offset if it parses as such.

.PP
\f4\-A\f1 \f2addr_base\f1 specifies the input offset base. \f2Addr_base\f1
can be one of \f4d\f1, \f4o\f1 or \f4x\f1 specifying \f2decimal\f1,
\f2octal\f1 or \f2hexadecimal\f1, respectively. The character \f4n\f1
may also be supplied and indicates that the offset base will not be written.
.PP
\f4\-j\f1 \f2skip\f1 specifies an offset at which the formatting will
begin in the input. By default, the offset is considered to be a decimal
number. With a leading \f20X\f1 or \f20x\f1, the offset
will be interpreted as a hexadecimal number. With a leading \f20\f1,
it will be interpreted as an octal number. Appending the character
\f4b\f1, \f4k\f1 or \f4m\f1 to \f2skip\f1 will cause it to be interpreted
as a multiple of 512, 1024 or 1048576.
.PP
\f4\-N\f1 \f2count\f1 specifies a maximum number of bytes which will
be formatted by the utility. \f2Count\f1 is considered as a decimal
number by default, but can also be specified as hexadecimal or octal
like \f2skip\f1 (see \f4\-j\f1).
.PP
The display continues until the end-of-file for the last file is reached.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxdfm\f1 and
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxsgicore\f1
language-specific message files [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.\"	$Revision: 1.7 $
.Ee
