'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)on.1c	1.3 87/07/29 3.2/4.3NFSSRC
.TH ON 1C
.SH NAME
on \- execute a command remotely
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B on
[
.B \-i
] 
[
.B \-n
] 
[
.B \-d
] 
.I host
.I command
[
.I argument
]
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "on command"  ""  "\fLon\fP \(em remote command execution"
.IX  "remote command execution"  ""  "remote command execution \(em \fLon\fP"
.LP
The 
.I on
program is used to execute commands on another system, in an
environment similar to that invoking the program.
All environment variables are passed, and the current working
directory is preserved.
To preserve the working directory, the working file system
must be either already mounted on the host or be exported to it.
Relative path names will only work if they are within the
current file system; absolute path names may cause problems.
.LP
Standard input is connected to standard input of the remote command,
and standard output and standard error from the remote command
are sent to the corresponding files for the 
.I on
command.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\f3\-i\f1" 5
Interactive mode: use remote echoing and special character processing.
This option is needed for programs that expect to be talking to a terminal.
All terminal modes and window size changes are propagated.
.IP "\f3\-n\f1" 5
No Input: this option causes the remote program to get end-of-file when
it reads from standard input, instead of passing standard input from
the standard input of the
.I on
program.
For example,
\f3\-n\f1 is necessary when running commands in the background with
job control.
.IP "\f3\-d\f1" 5
Debug mode: print out some messages as work is being done.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rexd(1M), exports(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "unknown host" 	
Host name not found.
.br
.IP "cannot connect to server"
Host down or not running the \f2rexd\f1 server.
.br
.IP "can't find \f3.\fP"
Problem finding the working directory.
.br
.IP "can't locate mount point"
Problem finding current file system.
.LP
Other error messages may be passed back from the server.
.SH BUGS
The window size is not set properly when executing interactively
on Sun workstations.
