'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} OVIEW_LAYOUT 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} OVIEW_LAYOUT 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} OVIEW_LAYOUT 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} OVIEW_LAYOUT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3oview_layout\f1 \- determine CrayLink interconnection topology of Origin systems
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/pcp/bin/oview_layout\f1
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oview_layout
attempts to determine the interconnection topology of Origin 2000 and 
Origin 200 systems.
It is not normally run by users, but rather
invoked automatically from the Origin systems visualization program,
.BR oview (1).
.PP
.B oview_layout
contacts the PCP collection daemon 
.BR pmcd (1)
on the target
.I host
(if
.B \-h
is given)
or accesses the PCP
.I archive
(if
.B \-a
is given) to obtain the Craylink interconnection inventory
and uses this to resolve the logical topology of the system.
.PP
.B oview_layout
can currently resolve the topology of Origin systems with an unlimited 
number of CrayLink routers with logical topologies
respresented by an edge, star, plane, or series of cubes and/or planes.
.PP
Planes are chosen from different modules linked to each other by having
their routers connected on the same slots. That is, module A is connected to
module B with routers on slot 1 connected together and routers on slot 2 connected
together. Cubes are formed by connected planes. An edge and a star are
degenerate cases handled separately.
.PP
If
.B oview_layout
successfully resolves the topology of the target host or archive, it
prints it in the following format (identical to the input format
expected by
.BR oview (1)).
.sp 1
.ft CB
.nf
.in +0.5i
router:\f(COM\f(CB.\f(COS\f(CB \f(COX Y Z\f(CB
    link rport:\f(COM\f(CB.\f(COS\f(CB.\f(COP\f(CB router:\f(COM\f(CB.\f(COS\f(CB
    ...
    link rport:\f(COM\f(CB.\f(COS\f(CB.\f(COP\f(CB node:\f(COM\f(CB.\f(COS\f(CB [cpu:\f(COM\f(CB.\f(COS\f(CB.\f(CON\f(CB [cpu:\f(COM\f(CB.\f(COS\f(CB.\f(CON\f(CB]]
\&...
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
Where
\f(COM\fR
and
\f(COS\fR
denote an Origin 2000 module and slot respectively (a ``slot'' may be either a
router slot or a node slot,
depending on the context),
\f(COP\fR
denotes a CrayLink router port number,
\f(CON\fR
denotes a CPU number (either
.B a
or
.BR b ),
and
\f(COX\fR, \f(COY\fR and \f(COZ\fR
are coordinates in a Cartesian space.
.PP
The keywords
\f(CBrouter\fR,
\f(CBlink\fR,
\f(CBrport\fR,
\f(CBnode\fR and
\f(CBcpu\fR
are literals.
.PP
In configurations with no router, the router and router
port numbers are
negative to indicate their placeholder status.
.SH CAVEATS
For systems which use metarouters (systems with 65 or more processors),
the metarouters are currently ignored, however, the other routers and
links for the system will be shown as normal, i.e. the system layout 
will be a series of cubes but with no links between the cubes (these are the
meta-router links).
.PP
If the CrayLink interconnections have not been properly configured,
then
.B oview_layout
may become confused.
.SH FILES
.nrPD 0
.TP 8
.BI /var/pcp/pmns/ *
default local PMNS specification files
.TP
.B /var/pcp/config/pmlogger/config.oview_layout
.BR pmlogger (1)
configuration file suitable for use with
.B oview_layout
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dkvis (1),
.BR mpvis (1),
.BR nodevis (1),
.BR oview (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmafm (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmie (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmtime (1),
.BR pmval (1),
.BR pmview (1),
.BR routervis (1),
.BR X (1),
.BR environ (5)
and
.BR pmlaunch (5).
