'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.passwd @(#)passwd	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PASSWD 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PASSWD 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PASSWD 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PASSWD "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
passwd \- change login password and password attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passwd
[ \f2name\f1 ]
.PP
.B passwd
\f1[ \f3\-l \f1| \f3\-d \f1] [ \f3\-n \f2min\f1 ] [ \f3\-f\f1 ] [ \f3\-x \f2max\f1 ] [ \f3\-w \f2warn\f1 ] \f2name\f1
.PP
.B passwd
\f3\-s\f1
[ \f3\-a\f1 ]
.PP
.B passwd
\f3\-s\f1
[ \f2name\f1 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2passwd\f1 command changes the password or lists password attributes
associated with the user's login
.IR name. 
Additionally, super-users may use \f2passwd\f1 to install or change
passwords and attributes associated with any login
.IR name.
Passwords for NIS entries that don't override the \f2passwd\f1 field with
a local value must be changed with
.IR yppasswd (1).
.P
When used to change a password,
.IR passwd
prompts ordinary users for their old password, if any.
It then prompts for the new password twice.  
The first time the new password is entered
.IR passwd
checks to see if
the old password has ``aged'' sufficiently.  
(Aging is not supported for NIS entries, even if they have locally overrriden
passwords.)
Password "aging" is the amount of time (usually a certain number of days)
that must elapse between password changes.
If ``aging'' is insufficient the new password is rejected and 
.IR passwd
terminates;  see 
.IR passwd (4).
.P
Assuming ``aging'' is sufficient, a check is made to insure 
that the new password meets construction requirements.  When the
new password is entered a second time, the two copies of the new 
password are compared.
If the two copies are not identical the cycle of prompting for the 
new password is repeated for at most two more times.
.P
Passwords must be constructed to meet the following requirements:
.RS
.sp
Each password must have at least six characters.
Only the first eight characters are significant.
.P
Each password must contain at least two alphabetic
characters and at least one numeric or special character.
In this case, ``alphabetic'' means upper and lower
case letters.
.P
Each password must differ from the user's login 
.IR name
and any reverse
or circular shift of that login
.IR name .
For comparison purposes, an upper case letter and its corresponding lower 
case letter are equivalent.
.P
New passwords must differ from the old by at least three characters.
For comparison purposes, an upper case letter and its corresponding lower 
case letter are equivalent.
.RE
.P
One whose effective user ID is zero is called a super-user; see 
.IR id (1),
and 
.IR su (1).
Super-users may change any password; hence, 
.IR passwd
does not prompt
super-users for the old password.
Super-users are not forced to comply with password aging and password  
construction requirements.
A super-user can create a null password by entering a carriage return in 
response to the prompt for a new password.
(This differs from \f3passwd \-d\f1 because the "password"
prompt will still be displayed.)
.P
Any user may use the \f3\-s\f1 option to show password attributes for his
or her own login
.IR name.
.P
The format of the display will be:
.P
.RS
\f2name\f1 \f2status\f1 \f2uid\f1 \f2gid\f1 \f2directory\f1 \f2shell\f1 mm/dd/yy \f2min\f1 \f2max\f1
.RE
.P
or, if password aging information is not present,
.P
.RS
\f2name\f1 \f2status\f1 \f2uid\f1 \f2gid\f1 \f2directory\f1 \f2shell\f1 
.RE
.P
or, if the entry is from NIS,
.P
.RS
\f2name\f1 \f2status\f1 \f2directory\f1 \f2shell\f1 
.RE
.P
where
.P
.TP 12
\f2name\f1
The login ID of the user.
.TP
\f2status\f1
The password status
of \f2name\f1: "PS" stands for passworded or locked, "LK" stands for locked,
and "NP" stands for no password.
.TP
\f2uid\f1
Numerical user ID
.TP
\f2gid\f1
Numerical group ID
.TP
\f2directory\f1
Initial working directory
.TP
\f2shell\f1
program to use as Shell when the user logs in.
.TP
\f2mm/dd/yy\f1
The date password 
was last changed for \f2name\f1.
(Because all password aging dates are determined using Greenwich Mean Time
and \f2/etc/passwd\f1 stores the information in weeks, the date may differ by
as much as a week depending upon the local time zone.)
.TP
\f2min\f1
The minimum number
of days required between password changes for \f2name\f1.
.TP
\f2max\f1 
The maximum number of days the password is valid for \f2name\f1. 
.P
Only a super-user can use the following options:
.TP 10
.B \-l
Locks password entry for \f2name\f1, preventing all logins to that
account, except via the
.IR rhosts (4)
mechanism.
Note that this feature allows a denial of service
attack that may require booting from the miniroot
to fix, as even the root accounts can be locked out.
.TP
.B \-d
Deletes password 
for \f2name\f1.
The login \f2name\f1 will not be prompted for 
password.
.TP
.B \-n
Set minimum field for \f2name\f1.
The \f2min\f1
field contains the minimum number of days between password
changes for \f2name\f1.
If \f2min\f1 is greater than \f2max\f1, the user may not
change the password.
Always use this option with the \f3\-x\f1 option,
unless \f2max\f1 is set to \-1 or 0 (aging turned off).
In that case, \f2min\f1 need not be set.
.TP
.B \-x
Set maximum field for \f2name\f1.
The \f2max\f1
field contains the number of days that the password
is valid for \f2name\f1.
The aging
for \f2name\f1
will be turned off immediately if \f2max\f1 is set to -1.
If it is set to 0, then the user is forced to
change the password at the next login session
and aging is turned off.
If \f2max\f1 is less than \f2min\f1, only the
super-user can change this user's password.
.TP
.B \-a
Show password attributes for all entries.
Use
only with \f3\-s\f1 option;
\f2name\f1 must not be provided.
.TP
.B \-f
Force the user to change password at the
next login by expiring the password for \f2name\f1.
.TP
.B \-w
The \f2warn\f1 argument indicates the number
of days before the password expires that the user is warned.
.P
The behavior of the program is influenced by the content of
\f2/etc/default/passwd\f1 if this file exists.  
The file is not supplied with the system, but may be locally created
and modified as need be.  If the file is not present, the default 
behaviors described below are followed.
The following items are recognized:
.TP
.B HISTORYCNT=n
the number of previous passwords to retain in \f2/etc/passwd.history\fP
for each system user.
The default behavior is to not retain any (and to not create the file).
Previously used passwords found in the history file may not be reused
until HISTORYCNT other passwords have been used, or HISTORYDAYS
have elapsed.
The superuser may supply any password for a user, including previously used
ones.  This superuser supplied password is retained in the history file.
The maximum value is 25.
.TP
.B HISTORYDAYS=n
the number of days to retain and check for previously used passwords.
The default behavior is to not retain any (and to not create the history
file).  The maximum value is 730 (approximately two years).  If HISTORYCNT
has not been specified and this parameter has been, HISTORYCNT is set to
25.  Smaller values of HISTORYCNT may be specified.
.TP
.B MAXWEEKS=n
the maximum number of weeks that the password is valid.  The default 
behavior is to not set a value.  This is equivalent to the \f2-x XX\fP
command line arguments.
.TP
.B MINWEEKS=n
minimum number of weeks between password changes (part of password aging).
The default behavior is to not set a value.  This is equivalent to the
\f2-n XX\fP command line arguments.
.TP
.B PASSGEN=/path
external program to be invoked to supply generated passwords.  The default
behavior is to not have such a program.  The program is invoked in lieu of
getting a password from the user.  The user must select one of the
choices offered.  The superuser may still supply passwords, and is not
presented with the generated passwords.
The program must be specified as a full pathname (starts
with /).  It should produce the passwords on separate lines with a
trailing new line character on its
stdout which is read by \f2passwd\fP and presented to the user.  Up to 20
generated passwords may be supplied by the program.  If it generates more
than 20, an error message is printed and no passwords are presented.
No generating programs are supplied with the system.
.TP
.B PASSLENGTH=n
minimum length of an acceptable password.  This defaults to 6, and has a
maximum value of 8.
.TP
.B PASSWDVALIDATE=/path
external program to be invoked to validate a new password.  The default
behavior is to not have such a program.  The program is invoked after the
basic validation steps discussed above. It must be specified as a full
pathname (starts with /).  The program receives the new password in the
clear, with a trailing new line, on its standard input, which is closed
after writing this one line.  The \f2passwd\fP program issues a \f2wait\fP(2)
and obtains the exit status of the external validation program.  Exit status
of 0 indicates the new password is acceptable, all other status values
indicate an error and the new password is not accepted.  
Passwords being changed by the superuser are not subject to this validation.
No external validation programs are supplied with the system.
.TP
.B WARNWEEKS=n
number of weeks before password expiration to begin warning the user.
The default behavior is to not set a value.
This is equivalent to the \f2-w XX\fP comand line arguments.
.SH NOTE
Aging does not work with NIS entries, even if the password is locally overridden.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd,
/etc/opasswd,
/etc/.pwd.lock,
/etc/shadow,
/etc/oshadow,
/etc/default/passwd,
/etc/passwd.history
.SH SEE ALSO
id(1M), login(1), su(1M).
.br
yppasswd(1) for NIS passwords.
.br
crypt(3C),
passwd(4), shadow(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.B passwd
command exits with one of the following values:
.IP 0 10
SUCCESS.
.IP 1 10
Permission denied.
.IP 2 10
Invalid combination of options. 
.IP 3 10
File manipulation error.
.IP 4 10
Old password or shadow password file cannot be recovered.
.IP 5 10
Password file(s) busy.  Try again later.
.IP 6 10
Invalid argument to option.
.IP 7 10
Unexpected failure.  Password file unchanged.
.IP 8 10
Unknown login name.
.IP 9 10
Password aging is disabled.
.\"	@(#)passwd.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
