'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.paste @(#)paste	41.9 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} paste 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} paste 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} paste 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} paste "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4paste\f1 \- merge same lines of several files or subsequent lines of one file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4paste\f1 \f4\-\fP|\f2file1\fP  \f4\-\fP|\f2file2\fP  . . .
.br
\f4paste \-d\f1\|\f2list \f4\-\fP|\f2file1\fP  \f4\-\fP|\f2file2\fP  . . .
.br
\f4paste \-s [\-d\f1\|\f2list\f1\|] \f4\-\fP|\f2file1\fP . . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the first two forms,
\f4paste\fP
concatenates corresponding lines of the given input
files
.IR file1 ,
.IR file2 ,
and so on.
It treats each file as a column or columns
of a table and pastes them together horizontally
(parallel merging).
If you will, it is
the counterpart of
\f4cat\fP(1)
which concatenates vertically, that is,
one file after the other.
In the last form above,
\f4paste\fP
replaces the function of an older command with the same name
by combining subsequent lines of the input file (serial merging).
If more than one file is specified with the \f4\-s\fP option, \f4paste\fP(1)
concatenates the merged files one below the other.
In all cases,
lines are glued together with the
.I tab\^
character,
or with characters from an optionally specified
.IR list .
Output is to the standard output, so it can be used as
the start of a pipe,
or as a filter,
if \f4\-\fP is used in place of a file name.
\f4paste\f1 processes supplementary code set characters
in \f2files\f1, and recognizes supplementary code set
characters in the \f2list\f1 given to the \f4\-d\f1 option (see below)
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
.PP
The meanings of the options are:
.TP
\f4\-d\f1
Without this option,
the new-line characters of each but the last file
(or last line in case of the
\f4\-s\f1
option)
are replaced
by a
.I tab\^
character.
This option allows replacing the
.I tab\^
character by one or more alternate characters (see below).
.TP
.I "list\^"
One or more characters immediately following
\f4\-d\f1
replace the default
.I tab\^
as the line concatenation character.
The list is used sequentially and circularly: first, the first element on the
list is used to concatenate the lines, then the next, and so on; when all
elements have been used, the list is reused starting from the first element.
In parallel merging (that is, no \f4\-s\f1 option),
the lines from the last file are always terminated with a new-line character,
not from the
.IR list .
The list may contain the special escape sequences:
\f4\en\f1
(new-line),
\f4\et\f1
(tab),
\f4\e\e\f1
(backslash), and
\f4\e0\f1
(empty string, not a null character).
Quoting may be necessary, if characters have special meaning to the shell
(for example, to get one backslash, use
.I \-d\|"\e\e\e\e\^"
).
\f2list\f1 may contain supplementary code set characters.
.TP
\f4\-s\f1
Merge subsequent lines rather than one from each input file.
Use
.I tab\^
for concatenation, unless a
.I list\^
is specified
with
\f4\-d\f1
option.
Regardless of the
.IR list ,
the very last character of the file is forced to be a new-line.
.TP
\f4\-\f1
May be used in place of any file name,
to read a line from the standard input.
(There is no prompting).
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 15m
\f4ls \|\(bv\| paste \|\-d" " \|\-\f1
Lists directory in one column
.TP
\f4ls \|\(bv\| paste \|\- \|\- \|\- \|\-\f1
Lists directory in four columns
.TP
\f4paste \|\-d"\e\|t\e\|n"\fP \f2file1 file2\fP
Lists \f2file1\fP in column 1 and \f2file2\fP in column 2.
The columns are separated by a tab.
.TP
\f4paste \-s \-d"\e\|t\e\|n"\fP \f2file1 file2\fP
Merges pairs of subsequent lines first in \f2file1\fP, then in \f2file2\fP.
Concatenates the merged \f2file2\fP below \f2file1\fP.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxdfm\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4cut\fP(1), \f4grep\fP(1), \f4pr\fP(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\f4UX:paste:ERROR:line too long\f1
Output lines are restricted to 4096 bytes.
.TP
\f4UX:paste:ERROR:too many files\f1
Except for
\f4\-s\f1
option, no more than 12 input files may be specified.
.\"	@(#)paste.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
