'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.pfmt @(#)pfmt	41.10 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} pfmt 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} pfmt 1 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} pfmt 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} pfmt "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4pfmt\f1 \- display error message in standard format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
.nf
pfmt [\-l \f2label\f4][\-s \f2severity\f4][\-g \f2catalog\f4:\f2msgid\f4] \f2format\f4 [\f2args\f4]
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4pfmt\f1 uses \f2format\f1 for \f4printf\f1 style formatting of \f2args\f1.
\f4pfmt\f1 encapsulates the output in the standard error message format and
displays it on \f4stderr\f1.
.P
The following options are available.
.TP 12
\f4\-l \f2label\f1
Specify the label string to be displayed
with the message (for example, \f4"UX:cat"\f1).
\f2label\f1 is a character string no more than 25 characters in length;
it will be automatically suffixed with a colon (\f4:\f1).
When unspecified, no label is displayed as part of the message or when
the environment variable \f4NOMSGLABEL\f1 has been set.  Setting the
\f4NOMSGLABEL\f1 to turn off the label portion of the message.  Can be
used in conjunction with the \f4NOMSGSEVERITY\f environment variable.
.TP 12
\f4\-s \f2severity\f1
Specify the severity string to be
displayed with the message.
Acceptable strings include the standard severities in either their print string
(that is, \f4HALT\f1, \f4ERROR\f1, \f4INFO\f1, \f4WARNING\f1, and
\f4"TO FIX"\f1) or keyword (that is, \f4halt\f1, \f4error\f1, \f4info\f1,
\f4warn\f1, and \f4action\f1) forms, or any other user-defined string.
A user-defined string will be assigned the integer severity value of 5.
The severity will be suffixed with a colon (\f4:\f1).
The \f4ERROR\f1 severity will be used if no severity is specified, unless
the \f4NOMSGSEVERITY\f1 environment variable has been set.  Setting the
\f4NOMSGSEVERITY\f1 to turn off the severity portion of the message.
Can be used in conjunction with the \f4NOMSGLABEL\f environment variable.
.TP 12
\f4\-g \f2catalog\f4:\f2msgid\f1
Specify that a
localized version of \f2format\f1 should be retrieved from a
locale-specific message database.
\f2catalog\f1 indicates the message database that
contains the localized version of the \f2format\f1 string.
\f2catalog\f1 must be limited to 14 characters.
These characters must be selected from a set of all characters values,
excluding \f4\\0\f1 (\f4NULL\f1) or the characters \f4/\f1 (slash) and
\f4:\f1 (colon).
.sp.5
\f2msgid\f1
is a positive number that indicates the index of the string
into the message database.
.sp.5
If \f2catalog\f1 does not exist in the current locale (identified by the
\f4LC_MESSAGES\f1 or \f4LANG\f1 environment variables),
or if \f2msgid\f1 is out of bounds,
\f4pfmt\f1 will attempt to retrieve the message from the C locale.
If this second retrieval fails, \f4pfmt\f1 uses the \f2format\f1
string as passed on the command line.
.sp.5
\f4pfmt\f1 will output
\f4Message not found!!\\n\f1 as the \f2format\f1 string
if \f2msgid\f1 is not a valid number.
.SS "Standard Error Message Format"
\f4pfmt\f1 displays error messages in the following format:
.P
.RS
\f2label\f4: \f2severity\f4: \f2text\f1
.RE
.P
If no \f2label\f1 was defined using the \f4-l \f2label\f1 option, the message
is displayed in the format:
.sp .5
	\f2severity\f4: \f2text\f1
.br
.ne 4
.P
If \f4pfmt\f1 is called twice to display an
error message and a helpful \f2action\f1 or recovery message,
the output can look like the following:
.P
.RS
\f2label\f4: \f2severity\f4: \f2text\f1
.br
\f2label\f4: TO FIX: \f2text\f1
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Example 1:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
pfmt \-l UX:test \-s error "Syntax error\\n"
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.P
displays the message:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
UX:test: ERROR: Syntax error
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4gettxt\fP(1),
\f4lfmt\fP(1),
\f4printf\fP(1),
\f4lfmt\fP(3C),
\f4pfmt\fP(3C),
\f4environ\fP(5)
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS 
Upon success, \f4pfmt\f1 exits with code 0.
.P
Upon failure, \f4pfmt\f1 exits with the following codes:
.TP
1
write error
.TP
3
syntax error
