'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMBRAND 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMBRAND 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMBRAND 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMBRAND "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmbrand\f1 \- brand Performance Co-Pilot licenses
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/pcp/bin/pmbrand\f1
[\f3\-lqv\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmbrand
manages the ``branded'' file of valid
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) licenses.
.PP
By default,
.B pmbrand
silently updates the branded file to reflect the local
system identification and those PCP licenses that are
currently valid.
The
.B \-l
option causes
some verbose output describing the information that will be branded.
.PP
The
.B \-q
option reports the current state of the valid PCP licenses on
the local system, without
accessing or modifying the branded file.
.PP
Alternatively, the
.B \-v
option does not modify the branded file, but verifies the state
of the file, and exits with a status
of zero if it is valid and up to date, else the exit status
is greater than zero.
.PP
The branded file is used to select appropriate default behavior
when loading a Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS) using
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3).
.SH FILES
.nrPD 0
.TP 24
.B /var/pcp/pmns/Brand
the ``branded'' file of valid PCP licenses
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1)
and
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Various messages indicate non-recoverable failures.  In all cases,
the branded file will be created or modified.
This may necessitate correcting the problem and re-running
.B pmbrand
before PCP applications, and in particular calls to
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
will work correctly.
