'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMDAESPPING 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMDAESPPING 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMDAESPPING 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMDAESPPING "" "" "\&"
.\" $Id: pmdaespping.1,v 1.2 1999/05/26 02:38:46 kenmcd Exp $
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmdaespping\f1 \- generic probe performance metrics domain agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/var/pcp/pmdas/espping/pmdaespping\f1
[\f3\-C\f1]
[\f3\-d\f1 \f2domain\f1]
[\f3\-l\f1 \f2logfile\f1]
[\f3\-I\f1 \f2interval\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2timeout\f1]
\f2configfile\f1
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmdaespping
is a Performance Metrics Domain Agent (PMDA) which exports 
quality of service and response time measurements for
arbitrary commands as might be run from a shell such as
.BR sh (1).
.PP
These measurements are intended to be used to quantify service
quality and service availability for those services that are
either mission critical or act as early indicators of adverse
system performance.
For these reasons,
.B pmdaespping
is used to provide service probe capabilities for the System Group
Management (SGM) component of the Embedded Support Partner (ESP) tools.
.PP
The sample configuration can be used to monitor various services, both
locally and remotely, such as ICMP response (using
.BR ping (1)),
DNS lookup via
.BR nslookup (1),
bind/portmapper service using
.BR rpcbind (1),
SMTP by connecting to telnet port 25 and sending an ``expn root''
request,
NNTP by connecting to telnet port 119 and running a ``listgroup''
command, and numerous others.
.PP
It is expected that other commands would follow the examples in the
sample configuration files (see the ``FILES'' section below).
.PP
A brief description of the
.B pmdaespping
command line options follows:
.TP 5
.B \-C
Parse
.IR configfile ,
reporting any errors and exiting with non-zero status if the file contains
syntactical errors.
.TP 5
.B \-d
It is absolutely crucial that the performance metrics
.I domain
number specified here is unique and consistent.
That is,
.I domain
should be different for every PMDA on the one host, and the same
.I domain
number should be used for the same PMDA on all hosts.
.TP 5
.B \-l
By default a log file named
.I espping.log
is written in the directory where
.B pmdaespping
is started, i.e. since
.BR pmcd (1)
makes
.I /var/adm/pcplog
(or
.B $PCP_LOGDIR
if set in the environment)
its current directory, the default logfile for
.B pmdaespping
is
.IR ${PCP_LOGDIR-/var/adm/pcplog}/espping.log .
If the log file cannot be created or is not writable, output is
written to standard error instead.
.RS
.PP
The
.B \-l
option specifies an alternative name for the log file.
.RE
.TP 5
.B \-I
Amount of time (in seconds) between subsequent executions of the list of
commands provided via the configuration file
.IR configfile .
The default is 2 minutes.
.PP
.TP 5
.B \-t
Amount of time (in seconds) to wait before timing out awaiting a response
for a command from
.IR configfile .
The default is 20 seconds.
.PP
The required
.IR configfile
specifies ``tag'' and ``command'' pairs, each on a separate line.
All of the commands are run one after another, with the whole
group rescheduled to be run once per
.IR interval .
For each command that is run,
.B pmdaespping
records information related to the success (or timeout),
exit status, elapsed time and CPU time
(system and user), and this information is exported by the PMDA.
The tags are used to identify the individual commands amongst the values
exported by the PMDA, and form the external instance domain identifiers
for the
.B pmdaespping
metrics which relate to each command.
.PP
.SH INSTALLATION
In order for a host to export the names, help text and values for the espping
performance metrics, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd /var/pcp/pmdas/espping
# cp sample.map sgm.map
# vi sgm.map
# ./Configure
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
The map file which is passed in to the Configure script associates host
names with services to be monitored on each hostname.
The list of services is contained in the file
.IR /var/pcp/pmdas/espping/template.conf ,
and this file can be extended with customized service probe mechanisms.
.PP
The set of ``tag'' and ``command'' pairs may be generated via the Configure
script (as above), or specified from a default (sample) configuration
file, a customized file or entered interactively as part of the Install
script (use of the Install script is automated using Configure).
.PP
If you want to undo the installation, do the following as root:
.PP
.ft CW
.nf
.in +0.5i
# cd /usr/pcp/pmdas/espping
# ./Remove
.in
.fi
.ft 1
.PP
.B pmdaespping
is launched by
.BR pmcd (1)
and should never be executed directly.
The Install and Remove scripts notify
.BR pmcd (1)
when the agent is installed or removed.
.SH FILES
.nrPD 0
.TP 10
.B /etc/pmcd.conf
command line options used to launch
.B pmdaespping
.TP 10
.B /var/pcp/pmdas/espping/help
default help text file for the espping metrics
.TP 10
.B /var/pcp/pmdas/espping/template.conf
template configuration file with a number of common service probe
mechanisms
.TP 10
.B /var/pcp/pmdas/espping/sample.map
example mapping file for configuring which services to monitor, and at
which hosts
.TP 10
.B /var/pcp/pmdas/espping/sample.conf
example configuration file with a number of common commands
.TP 10
.B /var/pcp/pmdas/espping/Configure
installation script for
.B pmdaespping
.TP 10
.B /var/pcp/pmdas/espping/Install
direct installation script (bypass Configure) for
.B pmdaespping
.TP 10
.B /usr/pcp/pmdas/espping/Remove
undo installation script for
.B pmdaespping
.TP 10
.B ${PCP_LOGDIR-/var/adm/pcplog}/espping.log
default log file for error messages and other information from
.B pmdaespping
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmcd (1)
