'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMEM 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMEM 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMEM 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMEM "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmem\f1 \- report per-process memory usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmem\f1
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2starttime\f1]
[\f3\-u\f1 \f2username\f1]
[\f3\-w\f1]
[\f3\-z\f1]
[\f3\-Z\f1 \f2timezone\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmem
reports per-process memory usage statistics
within the Performance Co-Pilot framework.
Both virtual size and pro-rated physical memory usage are reported.
.PP
Unless directed to another host by the
.B \-h
option,
.B pmem
will contact the PMCD (see 
.BR pmcd (1))
on the local host to obtain the required information.
Alternatively, the
.B \-a
option may be used to obtain the required information from an archive (see
.BR pmlogger (1)).
If the
.B \-a
option is used, then the
.B \-S
option may be used to specify the temporal position relative to the start
of the archive in seconds.
.PP
The
.B \-u
option restricts the report to the specified
.I username
on the target host or archive.
Normally the report is truncated at the 80th column.
This is over-ridden with the
.B \-w
option.
.PP
By default,
.B pmem
reports the time of day according to the local timezone on the
system where
.B pmem
is run.
The
.B \-Z
option changes the timezone to
.I timezone
in the format of the environment variable
.B TZ
as described in
.BR environ (5).
The
.B \-z
option changes the timezone to the local timezone at the
host that is the source of the performance metrics, as identified via
either the
.B \-h
or
.B \-a
options.
.PP
Normally
.B pmem
operates on the default Performance Metrics Namespace (PMNS), however
if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is loaded
from the file
.IR pmnsfile.
.PP
If the PCP product is installed, then the tools
.BR psmon (1)
and
.BR mkpmemarch (1)
are available to assist in the creation of PCP archives that
can be replayed with
.BR pmem (1).
.SH "REPORT FORMAT"
.PP
In the report, all sizes are reported in Kbytes
unless shown with a suffix of
.BR M ,
in which case the size is Mbytes (multiples of 1048576 bytes),
or a suffix of
.BR G ,
in which case the size is Gbytes (multiples of 1073741824 bytes).
The virtual memory usage statistics represent the total virtual size of
each process, irrespective of how many pages are valid (resident).
The physical memory statistics indicate real memory usage (only valid
pages are counted) and are pro-rated on a per-page basis between all
processes which reference each page.
.PP
The columns in the report should be interpreted as follows:
.PP
.TP 10
.B pid
Process ID.
.TP
.B ppid
Parent process ID.
.TP
.B username
User name of process owner.
.TP
.B vtxt
Total virtual memory used by text (executable code)
regions mapped by the process.
.TP
.B ptxt
Pro-rated physical memory used by text regions.
.TP
.B vdat
Total virtual memory used by all non-executable regions,
excluding shared memory regions.
This includes initialized data, bss and stack but not shared memory regions.
.TP
.B pdat
Pro-rated physical memory used by all data regions
(data, bss and stack but not shared memory regions).
.TP
.B vshm
Total virtual memory used by all shared memory regions.
.TP
.B pshm
Pro-rated physical memory used by shared memory regions.
.TP
.B command
The command and arguments, truncated so each line in the
report is at most 80 columns (unless the
.B \-w
option is given).
.PP
The report heading shows the amount of physical memory 
configured on the target host and the amount of free memory,
as reported by the operating system (see the PCP metric
.BR mem.freemem ).
.PP
Only memory used in user space is counted \- memory used in kernel tables
such as that used for \f3pte\fPs (page table entries), and the \f3proc\fP
and \f3user\fP structures are not counted because they are allocated in
the kernel's address space.
.PP
If any shared memory segments are found with no process attachment,
the size of these are summed.  If the total is more than 4096 bytes,
then this is reported as
.B vshm
belonging to a virtual
process with a
.B command
of ``orphaned shmem'' and a
.B pid
of ``???''.
.PP
At the end of the report, a summary is printed indicating the totals for each column
and the grand totals.
The difference between the total physical memory in use by all processes
and the total configured physical memory
will always be more than the free memory reported by the operating system
because the latter also accounts for memory allocated in the kernels address space.
.PP
All statistics are accurate to within one 256th of a page.
.SH FILES
.nrPD 0
.TP 24
.BI /var/pcp/pmns/ *
default PMNS specification files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkpmemarch (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmdumplog (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR pmlogger (1),
.BR pmval (1),
and
.BR sproc (2).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All are generated on standard error and are intended to be self-explanatory.
