'\"macro stdmacro
.\" $Id: pmie_check.1,v 1.2 1999/05/25 10:29:49 kenmcd Exp $
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMIE_CHECK 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMIE_CHECK 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMIE_CHECK 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMIE_CHECK "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmie_check\f1
\- administration of the Performance Co-Pilot inference engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/pcp/bin/pmie_check
[\f3\-NsV\f1]
[\f3\-c\f1 \f2control\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This shell script and associated control file may be used to
create a customized regime of administration and management for the
Performance Co-Pilot (see
.BR PCPintro (1))
inference engine,
.BR pmie (1).
.PP
.B pmie_check
may be run at any time, and is intended to check that the desired set
of
.BR pmie (1)
processes are running, and if not to re-launch any failed inference engines.
Use of the
.B \-s
option provides the reverse functionality, allowing the set of
.B pmie
processes to be cleanly shutdown.
.PP
.B pmie_check
is controlled by a PCP inference engine control file that specifies the
.B pmie
instances to be managed.  The default control file is
.IR /var/pcp/config/pmie/control ,
but an alternate may be specified using the
.B \-c
option.
.PP
The control file should be customized according to the following rules.
.IP 1.
Lines beginning with a ``#'' are comments.
.PD 0 parameters of the
.IP 2.
Lines beginning with a ``$'' are assumed to be
assignments to environment variables in the style of
.BR sh (1),
and all text following the ``$'' will be
.BR eval 'ed
by the script reading the control file,
and the corresponding variable exported into the environment.
This is particularly
useful to set and export variables into the environment of
the administrative script, e.g.
.br
.in+4n
.ftCW
.nf
$ PMCD_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=20
.fi
.ftR
.in-4n
.br
.BR Warning :
The
.I /var/pcp/config/pmie/control
file is a potential security risk if it is writable by any user other
than root.
.br
.IP 3.
There should be one line in the control file
for each
.B pmie
instance of the form:

.in+4n
.ftCW
.nf
\f2host\f1 \f3y\f1|\f3n\f1 \f2logfile\f1 \f2args\f1
.fi
.ftR
.in-4n

.IP 4.
Fields within a line of the control file
are separated by one or more spaces or tabs.
.IP 5.
The
.I first
field is the name of the host that is the default source of the
performance metrics for this
.B pmie
instance.
.IP 6.
The
.I second
field indicates whether this
.B pmie
instance needs to be started under the control of
.BR pmsocks (1)
to connect to a
.B pmcd
through a firewall (\c
.B y
or
.BR n ).
Note that
.B pmsocks
is part of the
.I pcp
product distribution, rather than the
.I pcp_eoe
distribution, and as such may not be installed on your system.  Refer to
.B PCPintro (1)
for full details.
.IP 8.
The
.I third
field is the name of the
.B pmie
activity log file.  
A useful convention is that
.B pmie
instances monitoring the local host
with hostname
.I myhost
are maintained in the directory
.IR /var/adm/pcplog/myhost ,
while activity logs for the remote host
.I mumble
are maintained in
.IR /var/adm/pcplog/mumble .
This is consistent with the way
.BR pmlogger (1)
maintains its activity logs and archive files.
.IP 9.
All other fields are interpreted as arguments to be passed to
.BR pmie (1).
Most typically this would be the
.B \-c
option.
.PD
.PP
The following sample control lines specify one
.B pmie
instance monitoring the local host (\c
.IR wobbly ),
and another monitoring performance metrics from the host
.IR splat .
.PP
.nf
.ftCW
wobbly  n  /var/adm/pcplog/wobbly  -c /var/pcp/config/pmie/config.default
splat   n  /var/adm/pcplog/splat   -c /var/adm/pcplog/splat/cpu.conf
.ft1
.fi
.PP
A typical
.BR crontab (5)
entry for periodic execution of
.B pmie_check
is given in
.IR /var/pcp/config/pmie/crontab
and shown below.
.PP
.nf
.ftCW
# every 30 minutes, check pmie instances are running
25,55   *       *       *       *       /usr/pcp/bin/pmie_check
.ft1
.fi
.PP
Alternate redirection of the output from the
.BR cron (1)
execution of the script may be controlled as follows:
.IP (1) 4n
The
.B \-V
option to the script will enable verbose tracing of their activity.
By default the script generates no output unless some error or warning
condition is encountered.
.IP (2)
To redirect the e-mail from
.BR cron (1)
away from the root login,
.RS +4n
.IP + 2n
Instead of using the ``root'' login,
create a special IRIX login with uid equal to 0, e.g. \c
.BR su_pcp .
The password may be locked and/or the shell invalid to prevent login
or
.B su (1),
but the home directory should exist.
For example the following entry in
.IR /etc/passwd :

.ti+4n
.ft CW
.nf
su_pcp:x:0:0:PCP Housekeeping:/usr/people/su_pcp:/dev/null
.fi
.IP +
.ft R
Create a
.I $HOME/.forward
for
.BR su_pcp ,
else an entry in
.I /usr/lib/aliases
for
.BR su_pcp ,
redirecting the e-mail to a real user or user(s).
.IP +
Add the ``crontab'' entries above to the crontab file for
.B su_pcp
not
.BR root ,
e.g. in the file
.I /usr/spool/cron/crontabs/su_pcp
.RE
.PP
The
.B \-N
option enables a ``show me'' mode, where the actions are echoed,
but not executed, in the style of ``make \-n''.
Using
.B \-N
in conjunction with
.B \-V
maximizes the diagnostic capabilities for debugging.
.SH FILES
.TP 18n
.B /var/pcp/config/pmie/control
the default PCP inference engine control file
.br
.BR Warning :
this file is a potential security risk if it is writable by any user
other than root.
.TP
.B /var/pcp/config/pmie/crontab
sample crontab for automated script execution by root
.TP
.BI logfile .lock
transient lock file which is named using the control-specified
.B pmie
.I logfile
names, and is used to guarantee mutual exclusion during
.B pmie_check
execution \- if present, can be safely removed if
.B pmie_check
is not running
.TP
.B /var/adm/pcplog/NOTICES
PCP ``notices'' file used by
.BR pmie (1)
and friends
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cron (1),
.BR chkconfig (1),
.BR pmie (1),
.BR PCPintro (1),
and
.BR pmsocks (1).
