'\"macro stdmacro
.\" $Id: pmnscomp.1,v 2.10 1999/05/25 10:29:49 kenmcd Exp $
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMNSCOMP 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMNSCOMP 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMNSCOMP 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMNSCOMP "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmnscomp\f1 \- compile an ASCII performance metrics namespace into binary format.
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmnscomp\f1
[\f3\-d\f1]
[\f3\-f\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2namespace\f1]
[\f3\-v\f1 \f2version\f1]
\f2outfile\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmnscomp
compiles a Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS) in ASCII format into a more
efficient binary representation.
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3)
is able to load this binary representation significantly faster than the
equivalent ASCII representation.
.PP
If
.I outfile
already exists
.B pmnscomp
will exit without overwriting it.
.PP
By convention, the name of the compiled namespace is that of the root file of
the ASCII namespace, with
.B .bin
appended.  For example, the root of the default PMNS is a file named
.B root
and the compiled version of the entire namespace is
.BR root.bin .
.PP
The options are;
.TP 5
.B \-d
By default the PMNS to be compiled is expected to contain at most one
name for each unique Performance Metric Id (PMID).  The
.B \-d
option relaxes this restriction and allows the compilation of a
PMNS in which multiple names may be associated with a single PMID.
Duplicate names are useful when a particular metric may
be logically associated with more than one group of related metrics,
or when it is desired to create abbreviated aliases to name a set
of frequently used metrics.
.TP
.B \-f
Force overwriting of an existing
.I outfile
if it already exists.
.TP
.B \-n
Normally
.B pmnscomp
operates on the default PMNS, however if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is loaded
from the file
.IR namespace.
.TP
.B \-v
By default,
.B pmnscomp
writes a version
.B 0
compiled namespace, which is compatible with 
versions of PCP before PCP2.0.
If
.I version
is
.B 1
then
.B pmnscomp
will write a version
.B 1
namespace which is compatible with PCP2.0 or later.
Note that PCP version 2.0 or later can handle both versions
but PCP versions prior to PCP 2.0 can only handle version
.B 0
compiled namespaces.
.PP
The default input PMNS is found in the file
.I /var/pcp/pmns/root
unless the environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is set, in which case the value is assumed to be the pathname
to the file containing the default input PMNS.
.SH CAVEAT
Once the writing of the new
.I outfile
has begun, the signals SIGINT, SIGHUP and SIGTERM will be ignored
to protect the integrity of the new file.
.SH FILES
.nrPD 0
.TP 24
.I /var/pcp/pmns/*
default PMNS specification files
.TP
.I /var/pcp/pmns/root.bin
compiled version of the default PMNS, when the environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is unset
.TP
.I /var/pcp/pmns/stdpmid
some standard macros for PMID generation
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmnsadd (1),
.BR pmnsdel (1),
.BR pmnsmerge (1),
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3),
and
.BR pmns (4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Cannot open ``xyz'' \- the filename for the root of the PMNS that was
passed to
.BR pmLoadNameSpace (3)
is bogus
.PP
Illegal PMID \- either one of the three PMID components (see
.BR pmns (4))
is not an integer, or the value for one of the 
components is negative, or too large.
.PP
Expected ... \- specific syntax errors when a particular type of
lexical symbol was expected and
not found; the messages are intended to be self-explanatory.
.PP
Internal botch \- implementation problem for the parser ... 
.PP
Duplicate name ``abc'' in subtree for ``pqr.xyz'' \- for each non-leaf
node, the names of all immediate descendents must be unique.
.PP
No name space entry for ``root'' \- the special non-leaf node with a pathname
of ``root'' defines the root of the PMNS, and must appear
somewhere in the PMNS specification.
.PP
Multiple name space entries for ``root'' \- more than one ``root'' node
does not make sense!
.PP
Disconnected subtree (``abc.xyz.def'') in name space \- the pathname
for this non-leaf node does not correspond to any pathname in the PMNS,
hence this non-leaf node is ``orphaned'' in the PMNS.
.PP
Cannot find definition for non-terminal node ``xyz'' in name space \- a
non-terminal node is named as part of its parent's specification, but
is never defined.
.PP
Duplicate metric id (xxx) in name space for metrics ``abc'' and ``xyz''
\- each PMID must be unique across the PMNS.
