'\"macro stdmacro
.\" $Id: pmnsdel.1,v 1.2 1999/05/25 10:29:49 kenmcd Exp $
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMNSDEL 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMNSDEL 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMNSDEL 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMNSDEL "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmnsdel\f1 \- delete a subtree of names from the Performance Co-Pilot PMNS
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/pcp/bin/pmnsdel
[\f3\-d\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2namespace\f1]
.I metricpath
[ ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmnsdel
removes subtrees of names from a Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS),
as used by the components of the
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP).
.P
Normally
.B pmnsdel
operates on the default Performance Metrics Namespace (PMNS), however
if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is used
from the file
.IR namespace .
.PP
The default PMNS is found in the file
.I /var/pcp/pmns/root
unless the environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is set, in which case the value is assumed to be the pathname
to the file containing the default PMNS.
.PP
The metric names to be deleted are all those for which one of the
.IR metricpath
arguments is
a prefix in the PMNS, see
.BR pmns (4).
.PP
All of the files defining the PMNS must be located within the
directory that contains the root of the PMNS, and this would typically be
.B /var/pcp/pmns
for the default PMNS, and this would typically imply running
.B pmnsdel
as root.
.PP
Provided some initial integrity checks are satisfied,
.B pmnsdel
will update the necessary PMNS files.
.B pmnsdel
will then attempt to compile
the resultant namespace using
.BR pmnscomp (1)
\- if this fails for any reason, the original namespace is restored.  Note
that any PMNS files that are no longer referenced by the modified namespace
will not be removed, even though though their contents are
not part of the new namespace.
.PP
The
.B \-d
option allows the resultant PMNS to optionally contain
duplicate PMIDs with different names in the PMNS.  By default
this condition is considered an error.
.SH CAVEAT
Once the writing of the new
.I namespace
file has begun, the signals SIGINT, SIGHUP and SIGTERM will be ignored
to protect the integrity of the new files.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.IP \f2/var/pcp/pmns/root\f1 2.5i
the default PMNS, when then environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is unset
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmnsadd (1),
.BR pmnscomp (1),
.BR pmnsmerge (1)
and
.BR pmns (4).
