'\"macro stdmacro
.\" $Id: pmnsadd.1,v 1.2 1999/05/25 10:29:49 kenmcd Exp $
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMNSADD 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMNSADD 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMNSADD 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMNSADD "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmnsadd\f1 \- add new names to the Performance Co-Pilot PMNS
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/pcp/bin/pmnsadd
[\f3\-d\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2namespace\f1]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pmnsmerge (1)
performs the same function as
.B pmnsadd
and is faster, more robust and more flexible. It is therefore recommended that
.BR pmnsmerge (1)
be used instead.
.PP
.B pmnsadd
adds subtree(s) of new names into a Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS),
as used by the components of the
Performance Co-Pilot (PCP).
.P
Normally
.B pmnsadd
operates on the default Performance Metrics Namespace (PMNS), however
if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative namespace is used
from the file
.IR namespace .
.PP
The default PMNS is found in the file
.I /var/pcp/pmns/root
unless the environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is set, in which case the value is assumed to be the pathname
to the file containing the default PMNS.
.PP
The new names are specified in the
.IR file ,
arguments and conform to the syntax for PMNS specifications, see
.BR pmns (4).
There is one PMNS subtree in each
.IR file ,
and the base PMNS pathname to the inserted subtree is identified by the first group
named in each
.IR file ,
e.g. if the specifications begin
.sp0.5v
.in+1i
.ftCW
.nf
myagent.foo.stuff {
    mumble	123:45:1
    fumble	123:45:2
}
.fi
.ft1
.in-1i
.sp0.5v
then the new names will be added into the PMNS at the non-leaf position
identified by
.ftCW
myagent.foo.stuff\c
.ft1
, and following all other names with the prefix
.ftCW
myagent.foo\c
.ft1
\&.
.PP
The new names must be contained within a single subtree of the namespace.
If disjoint subtrees need to be added, these must be packaged into separate
files and
.B pmnsadd
used on each, one at a time.
.PP
All of the files defining the PMNS must be located within the directory
that contains the root of the PMNS,
this would typically be
.B /var/pcp/pmns
for the default PMNS, and this would typically imply running
.B pmnsadd
as root.
.PP
Provided some initial integrity checks are satisfied,
.B pmnsadd
will update the PMNS using
.BR pmnsmerge (1)
\- if this fails for any reason, the original namespace remains
unchanged.
.PP
The
.B \-d
option allows the resultant PMNS to optionally contain
duplicate PMIDs with different names in the PMNS.  By default
this condition is considered an error.
.SH CAVEAT
Once the writing of the new
.I namespace
file has begun, the signals SIGINT, SIGHUP and SIGTERM will be ignored
to protect the integrity of the new files.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.IP \f2/var/pcp/pmns/root\f1 2.5i
the default PMNS, when then environment variable
.B PMNS_DEFAULT
is unset
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmnscomp (1),
.BR pmnsdel (1),
.BR pmnsmerge (1)
and
.BR pmns (4).
