'\"macro stdmacro
.\" $Id: pmprobe.1,v 1.8 1999/05/25 10:29:49 kenmcd Exp $
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMPROBE 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMPROBE 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMPROBE 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMPROBE "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmprobe\f1 \- lightweight probe for performance metrics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pmprobe\f1
[\f3\-IiVv\f1]
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2hostname\f1]
[\f3\-n\f1 \f2pmnsfile\f1]
[\f2metricname\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmprobe
determines the availability of performance metrics
exported through the facilities of the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP).
.PP
The metrics of interest are named in the
.I metricname
arguments.
If
.I metricname
is a non-leaf node in the Performance Metrics Name Space (\c
.BR pmns (4)),
then
.B pmprobe
will recursively descend the PMNS and report on all leaf nodes.
If no
.I metricname
argument is given, the root of the namespace is used.
.PP
The output format is spartan and intended for use in wrapper
scripts creating configuration files for other PCP tools.
By default, there is one line of output per metric, with the
metric name followed by a count of the number of available values.
Error conditions are encoded as a negative value count (as
per the
.BR PMAPI (3)
protocols, but may be decoded using
.BR pmerr (1))
and followed by a textual description of the error.
.PP
Unless directed to another host by the
.B \-h
option,
.B pmprobe
will contact the Performance Metrics Collector Daemon
(PMCD) on the local host.
.PP
The
.B \-a
option causes
.B pmprobe
to use the specified archive rather than connecting to a PMCD.  The
.B \-a
and
.B \-h
options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
Normally
.B pmprobe
operates on the distributed Performance Metrics Name Space (PMNS),
however, if the
.B \-n
option is specified an alternative local PMNS file is loaded
from the file
.IR pmnsfile .
.PP
Other options control the output of additional information when
one or more values is available.
.TP 5
.B \-I
Report the external identifiers for each instance.  The literal string
.B PM_IN_NULL
is reported for singular metrics.
.TP
.B \-i
Report the internal identifiers for each instance.  The values are
in decimal and prefixed by ``?''.  As a special case, the literal
string
.B PM_IN_NULL
is reported for singular metrics.
.TP
.B \-v
Report the value for each instance, as per the formatting
rules of
.BR pmPrintValue (3).
.PP
The
.B \-v
option is mutually exclusive with either the
.B \-I
or
.B \-i
options.
.PP
The
.B \-V
option provides a cryptic summary of the number of messages sent
and received across the PMAPI interface.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ftCB
$ pmprobe disk.dev
.ftCW
disk.dev.read 2
disk.dev.write 2
disk.dev.total 2
disk.dev.blkread 2
disk.dev.blkwrite 2
disk.dev.blktotal 2
disk.dev.active 2
disk.dev.response 2
.sp
.ftCB
$ pmprobe -I disk.dev.read disk.dev.write \e
  disk.all.total
.ftCW
disk.dev.read 2 "dks0d1" "dks0d2"
disk.dev.write 2 "dks0d1" "dks0d2"
disk.all.total 1 PM_IN_NULL
.sp
.ftCB
$ pmprobe -v pmcd.numagents pmcd.version pmcd.control.timeout
.ftCW
pmcd.numagents 1 9
pmcd.version 1 "2.0 beta-1"
pmcd.control.timeout 1 5
.sp
.ftCB
$ pmprobe -v disk.dev.total disk.all.total
.ftCW
disk.dev.total -1012 Unknown metric name
disk.all.total 1 4992466
.fi
.ftR
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 24
.BI /var/pcp/pmns/ *
default PMNS specification files
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pmcd (1),
.BR pmchart (1),
.BR pmdumplog (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR PMAPI (3),
.BR pmErrStr (3)
and
.BR pmns (4).
