'\macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMRUN 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMRUN 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMRUN 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMRUN "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmrun\f1 \- graphical utility for entering PCP command line arguments
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/pcp/bin/pmrun\f1
[\f3\-a\f1 \f2archive\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1 \f2host\f1]
[\f3\-S\f1 \f2start\f1]
[\f3\-T\f1 \f2finish\f1]
[\f3\-t\f1 \f2delta\f1]
[\f3\-x\f1 \f2text\f1]
[\f3\-y\f1 \f2text\f1]
\f2command\f1
[\f2specifications\f1 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pmrun
is a configurable utility for launching applications within the Performance
Co-Pilot (PCP) framework.  It is primarily a visual interface to the more
frequently used command line arguments for each tool, and is intended as an
aid in launching tools from the desktop.
.PP
.B pmrun
is based on the \f3launch\f1(1)
utility, and also understands a small set of the common PCP command line
arguments, and contains knowledge of the semantics of these arguments.  For
example, the arguments for archives (\-a) and hosts (\-h) are common to many
of the PCP monitor tools, and are also mutually exclusive arguments - this
relationship is enforced by \f3pmrun\f1,
while still allowing either type of metric source to be specified.
.B pmrun
must be run with a \f2command\f1 (must be an executable file) which
is to be executed when either the ``OK'' or ``Apply'' button is pressed.
.PP
The optional
\f2specifications\f1 allow additional launch arguments to be mapped to input
fields for user completion.  Again, this is intended to provide a more
obvious, self-explanatory interface to the launched application than is
provided by the command line.
.PP
The \f2options\f1 control the specific arguments which are presented to the
launched tool when either the ``OK'' or ``Apply'' button is pressed.
.TP 5
.B \-a
Creates a finder widget which allows an archive filename to be entered and
subsequently passed to the launched tool via its own \-a argument.  The
default value presented in the finder will be \f2archive\f1, which can be the
empty string (\f2archive\f1 is required if 
.B pmrun
is given the \-a argument, even if an empty string enclosed by quotes is all
that is used).
.TP
.B \-h
Creates a finder widget which allows a hostname to be entered and passed to the
launched tool via its own \-h argument.  The default value in the finder will
be \f2host\f1.
.TP
.B \-S
Creates a text field which allows the \f2start\f1 time for metric fetches 
from an archive to be entered.  This field will not be editable if both the
\-h and \-a arguments have been presented to
.B pmrun
and the ``Host'' toggle button is currently set.  The times entered in this
text field are validated according to the syntax rules described in
.BR PCPIntro (1)
before being passed on to the launched tool.
.TP
.B \-T
Similar to the \-S argument, but allows the archive \f2finish\f1 time to be
entered.
.TP
.B \-t
Creates a text field and an associated time-units selection menu.
This allows the sample interval at which performance metrics will
be fetched from the metrics source to be specified.  The interval
argument follows the syntax described in
.BR PCPIntro (1),
and in the simplest form may be an unsigned integer (the implied
units are seconds).  The default is 2.0 seconds.
.TP
.B \-x
The \f2text\f1 following this argument will be prepended to the launched
\f2command\f1 before it is executed.
.TP
.B \-y
The \f2text\f1 following this argument will be appended to the launched
\f2command\f1 before it is executed.
.SH SPECIFICATION LANGUAGE
The language used to recognize the \f2specification\f1 arguments to
.B pmrun
is designed to be simple and easily extended (programmatically) should the
need for different argument input mechanisms arise.
.PP
The general format for these arguments is a ``|'' separated string, with the
first argument distinguishing the user-interface element (type) which is to be
created.  Currently the only supported specification type is for text fields,
and the remaining tokens are as follows:
.TP
\f2text\f1|\f2flag\f1|\f2label\f1|\f2default\f1
.PP
The \f2text\f1 token identifies this as a text field.  \f2flag\f1 is the
command line flag to pass to the launched application (a ``-'' will be
prepended to this by \f3pmrun\f1)
when a value has been entered into this text field.
\f2label\f1 is the label associated with this text field, and \f2default\f1 is
the string displayed by default in the text field.
.SH FILES
.nrPD 0
.TP 24
.BI /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/PmRun
application resources
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fftr (1),
.BR iconbook (1),
.BR launch (1)
and
.BR PCPIntro (1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error conditions encountered will be reported via an error dialog, and
are intended to be self-explanatory.
