'\"macro stdmacro
.\" $Id: pmtime.1,v 2.5 1997/12/11 05:08:55 markgw Exp $
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PMTIME 1 "Performance Co-Pilot" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PMTIME 1 "Performance Co-Pilot"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PMTIME 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PMTIME "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3pmtime\f1 \- Performance Co-Pilot time control server
.\" literals use .B or \f3
.\" arguments use .I or \f2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/pcp/bin/pmtime\f1
[\f3\-a\f1]
[\f3\-h\f1]
\f3\-p\f1 \f2portname\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pmtime
provides a graphical user interface
for PCP applications requiring time control.
.B pmtime
is not normally invoked directly by users.
Rather, it is run by calling the
Performance Metrics Application Programming Interface (PMAPI) function
.BR pmTimeConnect (3).
.PP
The
.B \-p
argument is required.
When
.B pmtime
starts, it creates
.I portname
in the file system.
This is a Unix domain socket serving as the control port that
.B pmtime
will accept new connections on.
.PP
When starting,
.B pmtime
creates and initializes a ViewKit dialog containing
controls that are suitable for live/real-time time control (if the
.B \-h
flag is given) or for archive replay (if the
.B \-a
flag is given).
If neither 
.B \-h
or
.B \-a
are given,
the default is
.BR \-h .
The dialog will be initially managed (visible)
only if the client requested it, as described in 
.BR pmTimeConnect (3).
.PP
.B pmtime
will then enter its main loop, accepting new connections
and sending time control IPC messages to its client(s).
These messages are described in detail in
.BR pmtime (3).
.PP
When the number of connected clients reaches zero,
.B pmtime
will remove the control socket and exit.
Clients disconnect either by calling
.BR pmTimeDisconnect (3)
or simply exiting (implicitly closing the socket connection).
.PP
The arguments to
.B pmtime
are as follows:
.IP \f3\-a\f1
Use archive mode.
This instructs
.B pmtime
to create a dialog with time controls suitable for
manipulating the archive position, allowing full VCR control.
This argument is mutually exclusive with
.BR \-h .
.IP \f3\-h\f1
Use live (host) mode.
This instructs
.B pmtime
to create a dialog with time controls suitable for live/real-time monitoring.
This argument is mutually exclusive with
.BR \-a .
.IP \f3\-p\f1
Specifies the path to the control port, as described above.
If
.I portname
already exists,
.B pmtime
will display an error message and exit.
When
.B pmtime
exits, it removes
.IR portname .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR PMAPI (3)
and
.BR pmtime (3).
