'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.pr @(#)pr	31.5 of 1/23/87
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} PR 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} PR 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} PR 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} PR "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
pr \- print files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pr
.RB [[ \-column ]
.RB [ \-w width]
.RB [ \-a ]]
.RB [ \-e ck]
.RB [ \-i ck]
.RB [ \-drtfp ]
.RB [ \+ page]
.RB [ \-n ck]
.RB [ \-o offset]
.RB [ \-l length]
.RB [ \-s separator]
.RB [ \-h header]
[file .\|.\|.\|]
.sp
.B pr
.RB [[ \-m ]
.RB [ \-w width]]
.RB [ \-e ck]
.RB [ \-i ck]
.RB [ \-drtfp ]
.RB [ \+ page]
.RB [ \-n ck]
.RB [ \-o offset]
.RB [ \-l length]
.RB [ \-s separator]
.RB [ \-h header]
file1 file2 .\|.\|.\|
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pr\^
is used to format and print the contents of a file.
If
.I file\^
is
\f3\-\f1, or if no files are specified, 
.I pr\^ 
assumes standard input.
.I pr\^
prints the named files on standard output.
.PP
By default, the listing is separated into pages,
each headed by the page number, the date and time that the file was last modified, and the name of the file.
Page length is 66 lines which includes 10 lines of header and trailer output.
The header is composed of 2 blank lines, 1 line of text ( can be altered with
\f3\-h\f1), and 2 blank lines;  the trailer is 5 blank lines.
For single column output, line width may not be set and is unlimited.
For multicolumn output, line width may be set and the default is 72 columns.
Diagnostic reports (failed options) are reported at the end of standard output
associated with a terminal, rather than interspersed in the output.
Pages are separated by series of line feeds rather than form feed characters.
.PP
By default, columns are of equal width, separated
by at least one space; lines which do not fit are
truncated. If the
.B \-s
option is used, lines are not truncated
and columns are separated by the \f2separator\f1 character.
.PP
Either \f2\-column\f1 or 
.B \-m
should be used to produce multi-column output.
.B \-a
should only be used with \f2\-column\f1 and not \f3\-m\f1.
.PP
Command line options are
.TP 10
.BI + page
Begin printing with page numbered \f2page\f1 (default is 1).
.TP
.BI \- column
Print \f2column\f1 columns of output (default is 1).
Output appears as if
.B \-e
and
.B \-i
are turned on for multi-column output.
May not use with \f3\-m\f1.
.TP
.B \-a
Print multi-column output across the page one line per column.
.I columns
must be greater than one.
If a line is too long to fit in a column, it is truncated.
.TP
.B \-m
Merge and print all files simultaneously, one per column.
The maximum number of files that may be specified is eight.
If a line is too long to fit in a column, it is truncated.
May not use with \f2\-column\f1.
.TP
.B \-d
Double-space the output.
Blank lines that result from double-spacing are dropped when they occur at the top
of a page.
.TP
.BI \-e ck\^
Expand input tabs to character positions
.IR k "+1, 2\(**" k "+1, 3\(**" k +1,
etc.
If
.I k\^
is 0 or is omitted, default tab settings at every eighth position are assumed.
Tab characters in the input are expanded into the appropriate number of spaces.
If
.I c\^
(any non-digit character) is given, it is treated as the input tab character
(default for
.I c\^
is the tab character).
.TP
.BI \-i ck\^
In output, replace white space wherever possible by inserting tabs
to character positions
.IR k "+1, 2\(**" k "+1, 3\(**" k +1,
etc.
If
.I k\^
is 0 or is omitted, default tab settings at every eighth position are assumed.
If
.I c\^
(any non-digit character) is given, it is treated as the output tab character
(default for
.I c\^
is the tab character).
.TP
.BI \-n ck\^
Provide
.IR k -digit
line numbering (default for
.I k\^
is 5).
The number occupies the first
.IR k +1
character positions of each column of single column output
or each line of
.B \-m
output.
If
.I c\^
(any non-digit character) is given, it is appended to the line number to separate
it from whatever follows (default for
.I c\^
is a tab).
.TP
.BI \-w width
Set the width of a line to
.I width
character positions (default is 72).
This is effective only for multi-column output (\f2-column\f1 and \f3\-m\f1).
There is no line limit for single column output.
.TP
.BI \-o offset
Offset each line by
.I offset
character positions (default is 0).
The number of character positions per line is the sum of the width and offset.
.TP
.BI \-l length
Set the length of a page to
.I length
lines (default is 66).
\f3\-l\f10 is reset to \f3\-l\f166.
When the value of \f2length\f1 is 10 or less,
.B \-t
appears to be in effect since headers and trailers are suppressed.
By default, output contains 5 lines of header and 5 lines of trailer
leaving 56 lines for user-supplied text.
When \f3\-l\f2length\f1 is used and \f2length\f1 exceeds 10, then \f2length\f1-10 lines
are left per page for user supplied text.
When \f2length\f1 is 10 or less, header and trailer output is omitted to make
room for user supplied text.
.TP
\f3\-h\f2\ header\f1
Use \f2header\f1 as the text line of the header to be printed instead of
the file name.
.B \-h
is ignored when
.B \-t
is specified or \f3\-l\f2length\f1 is specified and the value of \f2length\f1
is 10 or less.
(\f3\-h is the only \f2pr\f1 option requiring space between the option
and argument.)
.TP
.B \-p
Pause before beginning each page if the output is directed to a terminal
.RI ( pr\^
will ring the bell at the terminal and
wait for a carriage return).
.TP
.B \-f
Use single form-feed character for new pages
(default is to use a sequence of line-feeds).
Pause before beginning the first page if
the standard output is associated with a terminal.
.TP
.B \-r
Print no diagnostic reports on files that will not open.
.TP
.B \-t
Print neither the five-line identifying header nor the five-line trailer normally
supplied for each page.
Quit printing after the last line of each file
without spacing to the end of the page.
Use of
.B \-t
overrides the
.B \-h
option.
.TP
.BI \-s separator
Separate columns by the single character
.I separator
instead of by the appropriate number of spaces (default for
.I separator
is a tab).
Prevents truncation of lines on multicolumn output unless \f3\-w\f1
is specified.
.SH EXAMPLES
Print
.B file1
and
.B file2
as a double-spaced, three-column listing
headed by ``file list'':
.PP
.RS
\f3pr \|\-3dh \|"file \|list" \|file1 \|file2\f1
.RE
.PP
Copy
.B file1
to
.BR file2 ,
expanding tabs to columns 10, 19, 28, 37, .\|.\|. :
.PP
.RS
\f3pr \|\-e9 \|\-t \|<file1 \|>\|file2\f1
.RE
.PP
Print
.B file1
and
.B file2 
simultaneously in a two-column listing with no header or trailer where both
columns have line numbers:
.PP
.RS
\f3pr \|\-t \|\-n \|file1 \|| pr \|\-t \|\-m \|\-n \|file2\f1 -
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 14
/dev/tty\(**
If standard output is directed to one of the special files
.BR /dev/tty\(** ,
then other output directed to this terminal is delayed until
standard output is completed.
This prevents error messages from being interspersed
throughout the output.
.SH SEE ALSO
cat(1), fold(1), pg(1).
.br
.\"	@(#)pr.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att1
