'\"macro stdmacro
.TH proclaim 1M "30 Jul 1996"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
proclaim \- client for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3/usr/etc/proclaim\f1
[ \f3\-B\f1 ]
[ \f3\-b\f1 \f2lease_time\f1 ]
[ \f3\-d \-s\f1 \f2server_addr\f1 ]
[ \f3\-E\f1 ]
    [ \f3\-e\f1 \f22nd_interface\f1 ]
[ \f3\-I\f1 ]
[ \f3\-i\f1 ]
[ \f3\-l\f1 \f2lease_time\f1 ]
[ \f3\-p\f1 ]
    [ \f3\-r\f1 \f2lease_time\f1 \f3\-s\f1 \f2server_addr\f1 ]
[ \f3\-t\f1 \f2repeat\f1 ]
[ \f3\-x\f1 \f2max_timeout\f1 ]
    [ \f3\-w \-h\f1 \f2host_name\f1 \f3\-a\f1 \f2ip_addr\f1 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Proclaim
is a client that communicates with a DHCP server to obtain configuration
parameters, including at least an IP address.
The format of DHCP messages is based on the format of
.I bootp
messages, described in RFC 951.
A detailed protocol specification of DHCP is in RFC 1541,
available from the Network Information Center.
.PP
The DHCP protocol uses UDP/IP as its transport mechanism.
The DHCP server receives service requests at the UDP port indicated in the
.I bootp
service description contained in the file
.IR /etc/services ;
see
.IR services (4).
.PP
.I Proclaim
can be used to setup and configure new systems automatically,
and to move systems from one net to another without administrative intervention.
It can also be used to automatically verify current configurations at reboot.
Only the superuser can employ \f2proclaim\f1.
If the primary network interface is changed,
\f2proclaim\f1 updates the \f2netaddr\f1 variable in the NVRAM.
.PP
In the absence of the DHCPoptionsToGet keyword, \f2proclaim\f1 requests
the following configuration parameters from an available DHCP server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
an IP address
the lease duration (3 year default)
the subnet mask
hostname (users may be allowed to choose their own)
NIS domainname if the NIS option is installed.
IP address of the DHCP server; see \f2dhcp_bootp\f1(1M).
.fi
.RE
.PP
The DHCP server is started by
.IR inetd (1M) ,
as configured in the
.IR inetd.conf
file.
The basic operation of the DHCP protocol is a series of
packet exchanges as follows:
.IP 1) 4n
The client machine broadcasts a DHCPDISCOVER packet to the
DHCP server's UDP port, using a UDP broadcast equivalent.
The request packet includes the requester's network hardware address,
and a list of desired configuration options as described above.
.IP 2) 4n
All the DHCP servers on the same network as the client machine
receive the client's request as do the \f2bootp\f1 relay agents,
which forward the request to other subnets.
.IP 3) 4n
The server looks up the requester in its configuration files
to determine if it is configured to serve clients from the requesting subnet.
The server now looks in the \f2propel\f1 database or
the \f2/etc/ethers\f1 file (see \f2ethers\fR(4)) for an entry
with the client's network hardware address.
If an entry is found, the server checks the hostname of that entry against
the \f2propel\f1 database or the \f2/etc/hosts\f1 file (see \f2hosts\f1(4))
to complete the network hardware address to Internet address mapping.
.IP
If no entry is found, the server generates an appropriate IP address
and hostname using its configuration files; see \f2dhcp_bootp\f1(1M).
.IP 4) 4n
The server now returns a response in the form of a DHCPOFFER packet,
which also includes other configuration information requested by the client.
.IP 5) 4n
The client accepts the first valid offer from a server and broadcasts back
a DHCPREQUEST message, which includes all the configuration options
from the DHCPDISCOVER message plus the address of the selected server.
.IP 6) 4n
The selected server makes a permanent mapping for the client's hostname,
IP address, and hardware address, and responds with a DHCPACK message.
.IP 7) 4n
On receiving the DHCPACK message from the server, the client writes
the configuration information into the appropriate configuration files
and then executes the networking initialization scripts.
.PP
If the server is configured in a manner where clients from specific subnets
are allowed to choose their own hostname, then at the receipt of the DHCPOFFER
message the client requests user input to either accept the offered hostname
or specify a different one.  This dialog between the server and client
continues until a valid and unique mutually acceptable name is selected.
Alternately, the \f3\-w\f1 option can be used to request a hostname and/or
IP address non-interactively.  The client will print an error and exit if 
the requested hostname or address is invalid.
.PP
.I Proclaim
sleeps after obtaining a new lease or after verifying an existing lease,
until it is time to renew the lease.
The client wakes up at times specified by the DHCP protocol
and attempts to renew the lease until it succeeds or the current lease expires.
If the client is unable to renew the lease then it can
shutoff \f3network\fP access depending on the use of the \f3\-E\fP option.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The \f3\-B\f1 option broadcasts a BOOTP packet to a BOOTP 1533 server.
This is useful when you just want to obtain the other configuration data,
and the IP address is not otherwise known to the BOOTP or DHCP server.
The data is placed in the file \f3/var/adm/proclaim.data\f1.
\f2proclaim\f1 does not change any networking state with this option.
.PP
The \f3\-b \f2lease_time\f1 option is used to manually rebind the lease; a 
.I lease_time
in seconds must be specified.
.PP
The \f3\-d\fP option allows the client to surrender its address lease
and shutdown all networking.
This option can only be used in conjunction with the
\f3\-s \f2server_address\f1 option to specify the Proclaim server address.
This usually is the server from where the original address lease was obtained.
If there is a client running on the host use the 
.B /etc/init.d/run-proclaim surrender
command to surrender the lease.
.PP
The \f3\-E\fP option is used to specify that network access should be shut off 
if the client is unable to renew the lease and the lease expires.
The default behavior does not shut off network access if the lease expires.
.PP
The \f3\-e \f22nd_interface\f1 option
is used to specify the device for a second network interface.
.PP
The \f3\-I\fP option is used to send a DHCPINFORM packet to a DHCP server.
This is useful when an IP address was assigned to the host using some other
means and it is required to obtain only other configuration parameters.
.PP
The \f3\-i\fP option is used where the client is seeking to verify a
previously allocated, cached configuration.
If the client receives a DHCPNAK response to this message,
it means that either the 'requested IP address' parameter is incorrect
or the client is on the wrong network.
The client automatically requests a new address and lease
and proceeds to install the new configuration.
If there is no response, it means the server(s) has no record of this client.
These messages are logged using the system logging daemon \f2syslogd\f1(1M). 
If a client is running on the host use the
.B /etc/init.d/run-proclaim verify
command to verify the lease.
.PP
The \f3\-l \f2lease_time\f1 option is used to request a different address
lease duration than the default of 3 years.
The lease time needs to be specified in number of seconds.
.PP
The \f3\-p\fP option is used to print the status of the current lease
and other configuration parameters.  This status is obtained from the
.I /var/adm/proclaim.lease_info 
file created at the time the lease was obtained.
.PP
The \f3\-r \f2lease_time \f3\-s \f2server_addr\f1
option is used to manually renew the lease; a 
.I lease_time 
in seconds must be specified. The 
.I server_addr
specifies the server with which to renew the lease.
The server address may be obtained by using the -p option of 
.I proclaim.
.PP
The \f3\-t \f2invocations\f1 option is used to specify
the number of invocations of the client using the 
.IR run-proclaim (1M)
script, after which the 
.I autoconfig_ipaddress
flag is set to off (see
.IR chkconfig (1M)). 
When this option is not specified the client may be run up to a default 2
(or as specified in the 
.I /etc/config/proclaim.options
file) number of times using the script after which the flag is set to off.
Use of the script to run the client requires the flag to be set to on.
.PP
The \f3\-x \f2max_timeout\f1 option is used to specify a maximum timeout
(time to wait for a server to reply) in seconds.
The current default is set to 6 seconds.
.PP
The \f3\-w \-h \f2host_name \f3\-a \f2ip_addr\f1
option is used to choose a hostname and IP address without the user being 
prompted by the client. If no 
.I host_name
or
.I ip_addr
is specified, the the hostname and IP address offered by the server will
be used.  If only the
.I host_name 
is specified, the server will choose an appropriate IP address. This option was 
added to make it possible to run \f2proclaim\f1 from a CGI script.

.SS Options File
Options may also be specified in the
.I /etc/config/proclaim.options
file.
Options specified on the command line supersede those specified in this file.
Lines beginning with a '#' are treated as comments.
The option keywords in this file must be followed immediately by a colon,
then by any number of tabs or spaces, and finally by the value of the option.
.PP
Here are the supported keywords:
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'ShutdownOnExpiry\0\0'u
Invocations	equivalent to \f3\-t\fP option
MaxTimeout	equivalent to \f3\-x\fP option
ServerAddress	equivalent to \f3\-s\fP option
ShutdownOnExpiry	equivalent to \f3\-E\fP option
Lease   	equivalent to \f3\-l\fP option
DHCPoptionsToGet	additional options to request from DHCP server
.fi
.RE
.PP
Additional options which are not keywords specify whether 
the 
.I run-proclaim
script should try to obtain configuration parameters for 
all the network interfaces on the system. If none of these
options are present then the 
.I proclaim
client is invoked for the primary interface only. 
.PP
The options are:
.RS
.nf
\f3Primary on|off \fP
\f3Interface\fP	interface \f3 on|off \fP 
.fi
.RE
.PP
The presence of an \f3on\fP invokes the 
.I proclaim
client and \f3off\fP does not invoke it for the specified
interface when the 
.I run-proclaim 
script is executed with a \f3start\fP argument. The value of
interface is the name, for example, ec1, xpi1, etc.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/hosts
/etc/ethers
/etc/config/ifconfig-1.options
/.rhosts
/etc/sys_id
/usr/etc/yp/ypdomain
/etc/init.d/network
/var/adm/proclaim.lease_info
/var/adm/proclaim.data
/etc/config/proclaim.options
/etc/init.d/run-proclaim
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bootp(1M),
dhcp_bootp(1M),
inetd(1M),
propel(1M),
run-proclaim(1M),
syslogd(1M),
ethers(4),
hosts(4)
