.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ps 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
ps \- report process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3ps\f1 [ options ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ps
prints information about active processes.
Without \f2options\f1,
information is printed about processes associated
with the controlling terminal.
The output consists of a short listing containing
only the process ID,
terminal identifier, cumulative execution time,
and the command name.
Otherwise, the information that is displayed
is controlled by the selection of \f2options\f1.
.PP
\f2options\fP accept names or lists as arguments.
Arguments can be either separated from one
another by commas or enclosed
in double quotes and separated from one another by commas or spaces.
Values for
\f2proclist\f1 and \f2grplist\f1
must be numeric.
.PP
The \f2options\fP are:
.TP 13
.B \-a
Print information about \f3a\f1ll processes most frequently requested:
all those except process
group leaders and processes not associated with a terminal.
.TP
.B \-A
Print information about \f3e\f1very process now running.
.TP
.B \-c
Print information about the scheduler properties.
(See below.)
.TP
.B \-d
Print information about all processes except process group leaders.
.TP
.B \-e
Print information about \f3e\f1very process now running (equivalent to
\f3\-A\f1).
.TP
.B \-f
Generate a \f3f\f1ull listing.
(See below for significance of columns in a full listing.)
.TP
.BI \-g " grplist"
List only process data
whose process group leader's ID numbers appear in \f2grplist\f1.
(A group leader is a process whose process ID number is identical
to its process group ID number.
A login shell is a common example
of a process group leader.)
.TP
.BI \-G " grplist"
List only process data whose real group leader's ID numbers
appears in \f2grplist\f1.
.TP
.B \-j
Print session ID and process group ID.
.TP
.B \-l
Generate a \f3l\f1ong listing.
(See below.)
.TP
.B \-M
If the system supports Mandatory Access Control,
print the security label for each process.
The \f3\-M\f1 option can be automatically be turned on by
using an environmental variable LABELFLAG.
Set
variable to \f3on\f1 (not case sensitive) for automatic
security label information.
To turn off feature set
to \f3off\f1 or \f3NULL\f1.
.TP
.BI \-n " name"
This argument is obsolete and is no longer used.
.TP
.BI \-o " format"
Print information according to the format specification
given in \f2format\f1.
(See below.)
.TP
.BI \-p " proclist"
List only process data
whose process
ID
numbers are given
in \f2proclist\f1.
.TP
.BI \-s " sesslist"
List information on all session leaders whose IDs appear in
.IR sesslist .
.TP
.BI \-t " termlist"
List only process data
associated with the terminal given in \f2termlist\f1.
Terminal identifiers consist of the device's name
(for example, \f3ttyd1\f1, \f3ttyq1\f1).
.TP
.B \-T
List data for individual kernel threads.
Normally the information presented is a summation across all threads
of the process.
This is of use when examining POSIX threaded processes.
.TP
.BI \-u " uidlist"
List only process data
whose user
ID
number or login name is given in
.IR uidlist .
In the listing, the numerical user
ID
is printed
unless you give the
.B \-f
option, which prints
the login name.
.TP
.BI \-U " uidlist"
List only process data
whose real user
ID
number or login name is given in
.IR uidlist .
.PP
Under the
.B \-f
option,
.I ps
tries to determine the command name
and arguments given when the process was created
by examining the user block.
Failing this, the command name
is printed, as it would have appeared without the \f3\-f\f1 option,
in square brackets.
.PP
The column headings and the meaning of the columns in a
.I ps
listing
are given below.
The letters
.B f
and
.B l
indicate the
option (\f3f\f1ull or \f3l\f1ong, respectively)
that causes the corresponding heading to appear (assuming
the \f3\-o\fP option is not specified);
.B all
means that the heading
always appears.
Note that these options determine
only
what information is provided for a process; they do not
determine which processes are listed.
.PP
If the
environment variable
_XPG
is defined and has a numeric value greater than 0,
.I ps
operates in conformance with the X/Open XPG4 specifications.
The format of the output of the \f3\-l\fP
option differs in some details from the XPG format and
backward compatibility mode.
The differences are explained
in the table below.
.ta .65i
.TP 15
.BR F "	(l)"
Flags (hexadecimal and additive) associated with the process:
.sp .8v
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 6
001
Process is a system (resident) process.
.TP
002
Process is being traced.
.TP
004
Stopped process has been given to parent via \f2wait\f1(2).
.TP
008
Process is sleeping at a non-interruptible priority.
.TP
010
Process is in core.
.TP
020
Process user area is in core.
.TP
040
Process has enabled atomic operator emulation.
.TP
080
Process in stream poll or select.
.TP
100
Process is a kernel thread.
.RE
.PD
.TP
.BR S "	(l)"
The state of the process:
.sp .8v
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 4
0
Process is running on a processor.
.TP 4
S
Process is sleeping, waiting for a resource.
.TP 4
R
Process is running.
.TP 4
Z
Process is terminated and parent not waiting (\f2wait\f1(2)).
.TP 4
T
Process is stopped.
.TP 4
I
Process is in intermediate state of creation.
.TP 4
X
Process is waiting for memory.
.TP 4
C
Process is creating core image after error.
.RE
.PD
.sp .8v
.ta0.7i
.TP
.BR UID "	(f,l)"
The user
ID
number of the process owner
(the login name is printed under the
.B \-f
option).
.TP
.BR PID "	(all)"
The process
ID
of the process (this datum is necessary in order to kill a process).
.TP
.BR PPID "	(f,l)"
The process
ID
of the parent process.
.TP
.BR PGID "	(j)"
Process group leader ID.
This can be used with the
.B \-g
option.
.TP
.BR SID "	(j)"
Session ID.
This can be used with the
.B \-s
option.
.TP
.BR CLS "    (c)"
Scheduling class.
The values printed for
.B CLS
are two character mnemonics for the scheduler class.  RT indicates real-time,
TS indicates timeshare, B indicates batch, BC indicates batch critical, WL indicate weightless and GN indicates gang scheduled.
.TP
.BR C "	(f,l)"
Processor utilization for scheduling.
Not printed when the
.B \-c
option is used.
.TP
.BR PRI "	(l)"
The priority of the process (higher numbers mean higher priority).
If the class of the process is WL, w is displayed as the priority. If
the process is scheduled via 
.I miser(1)
it may be b for batch or bc for batch critical.
.TP
.BR NI "	(l)"
Nice value, used in priority computation.
Not printed when the
.B \-c
option is used (see \f2nice\f1(1) and \f2csh\f1(1)).
Only processes in the time-sharing class have a nice value.
Processes in other scheduling classes have their two letter class mnemonic
printed in this field
(refer to CLS description above).
.TP
.BR P "	(l)"
If the process is running, gives the number of processor on which
the process is executing.
Contains an asterisk otherwise.
This is not displayed in X/OPEN XPG4 conformance mode.
.TP
.BR ADDR "  (l)"
The physical address of the process.
This is only displayed in X/OPEN XPG4 conformance mode.
.TP
.BR SZ "	(l)"
Total size (in pages) of the process, including code, data,
shared memory, mapped files, shared libraries and stack.
Pages associated with mapped devices are not counted.
(Refer to \f2sysconf\f1(1) or \f2sysconf\f1(3C) for
information on determining the page size.)
.TP
.BR RSS "	(l)"
Total resident size (in pages) of process.
This includes only those pages of the process that are physically resident
in memory.
Mapped devices (such as graphics) are not included.
Shared memory (\f2shmget\fP(2)) and the shared parts of a forked child
(code, shared objects, and
files mapped \f3MAP_SHARED\f1)
have the number of pages prorated by the number of processes sharing
the page.
Two independent processes that use the same shared objects and/or the
same code each count all valid resident pages as part of their
own resident size.
The page size can either be 4096 or 16384 bytes as determined by the
return value of the \f2getpagesize\f1(2) system call.
In general the larger page size is used on systems where \f2uname\f1(1)
returns "IRIX64".
This is not displayed in X/OPEN XPG4 conformance mode.
.TP
.BR WCHAN "	(l)"
The name (or address if the name is unavailable) of an event
for which the process is sleeping,
or in SXBRK state,
(if blank, the process is running).
.TP
.BR STIME "	(f)"
The starting time of the process, given in hours, minutes,
and seconds.
(A process begun more than twenty-four hours before the \f2ps\f1 inquiry is
executed is given in months and days.)
.TP
.BR TTY "	(all)"
The controlling terminal for the process
(the message, \f3?\f1, is printed when there is no controlling terminal).
.TP
.BR TIME "	(all)"
The cumulative execution time for the process.
.TP
.BR COMMAND "	(all)"
The command name (the full command name and its arguments are printed under
the
.B \-f
option).
.DT
.PD
A process that has exited and has a parent, but has not
yet been waited for by the parent, is marked
.BR <defunct> .
.PP
The \f3\-o\f1 option allows the output format to be specified under
user control.
.PP
The format specification must be a list of names presented as a single
argument, blank- or comma-separated.
Each variable has a default header.
The default header can be overridden by appending an equals sign and the
new text of the header.
The rest of the characters in the argument are
used as the header text.
The fields specified are written in the order
specified on the command line and should be arranged in columns in the
output.
The field widths are selected by the system to be at least
as wide as the header text (default or overridden value).
If the header
text is null such as \f3\-o\f1 user=, the field width is at least
as wide as the default header text.
If all header text fields are null,
no header line is written.
.PP
The following names are recognized:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B ruser
The real user ID of the process.
.TP
.B user
The effective user ID of the process.
.TP
.B rgroup
The real group UD of the process.
.TP
.B group
The effective group ID of the process.
.TP
.B pid
The decimal value of the process ID.
.TP
.B ppid
The decimal value of the parent process ID.
.TP
.B pgid
The decimal value of the process group ID.
.TP
.B pcpu
The ratio of CPU time used recently to the CPU time available in the
same period, expressed as a percentage.
.TP
.B vsz
The size of the process in (virtual) memory.
.TP
.B nice
The decimal value of the system scheduling priority of the process.
.TP
.B time
The cumulative CPU time of the process.
.TP
.B etime
The elapsed time since the process was started.
.TP
.B stime
The starting time of the process.
.TP
.B flag
Flags associated with the process.
.TP
.B state
The state of the process.
.TP
.B wchan
The address of an event
for which the process is waiting or sleeping.
.TP
.B wname
The name (or address if the name is unavailable) of an event
for which the process is waiting or sleeping.
.TP
.B util
Processor utilization for scheduling.
.TP
.B uid
The user ID number of the process owner.
.TP
.B cpu
The processor process is currently executing on.
.TP
.B class
The scheduling class of the process.
.TP
.B tty
The name of the controlling terminal of the process (if any) in the same
format used by the who utility.
.TP
.B comm
The name of the command being executed (argv[0] value) as a string.
.TP
.B args
The command with all its arguments as a string.
.TP
.B label
The MAC label of the running process.
.DT
.PD
.PP
The file
.I /tmp/.ps_data/.ps_data
is used to improve the performance
of
.I ps
by caching kernel info, and some device information.
It is recreated when it is older (either the mtime or
ctime) than
.IR /unix ,\ or\  /dev ,
or when a read error occurs on the file.
.I ps
runs noticeably slower when this file isn't used, or needs to be recreated.
.SH SHARE II ACTIONS
When the Share II package is installed and enabled, every process
acquires a new property: its
\f2attached lnode\f1.
The
\f2lnode\f1
is the kernel structure that is used to store per-user resource and
administration data under Share II.
Many processes can be attached to the same lnode.
.PP
An lnode contains a user's resource limits, including limits on
memory usage and `number of processes'.
All the processes attached to an lnode are collectively subject to
the lnode's memory and process limits.
.PP
Each lnode is addressed by a unique key which is a UID number.
When given the
\f3\-y\f1
option,
\f2ps\f1
reports each process's lnode attachment under the
`UID'
column as a UID or login name.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 14
/dev
\0\0
.TP 15
/dev/tty*
\0\0
.TP 15
/etc/passwd
UID information supplier
.TP 15
/tmp/.ps_data/.ps_data
internal data structure
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
getty(1M),
gr_osview(1),
gr_top(1),
kill(1),
miser(1),
nice(1),
sysconf(1),
top(1),
sched_setscheduler(2),
sysconf(3C).
.SH WARNING
Things can change while
.I ps
is running; the snapshot it gives is only true for a
splitsecond, and it may not be accurate by the time you see it.
Some data printed for defunct processes is irrelevant.
.PP
If no
\f2termlist\f1, \f2proclist\f1,
\f2uidlist\f1, or \f2grplist\f1
is specified,
.I ps
checks
\f2stdin\f1, \f2stdout\f1, and \f2stderr\f1
in that order, looking for the controlling terminal
and attempts to report on processes associated with
the controlling terminal.
In this situation, if \f2stdin\f1, \f2stdout\f1, and \f2stderr\f1
are all redirected,
.I ps
does not find a controlling terminal, so there is no report.
.PP
\f3ps \-ef\f1 may not report the actual start of a tty login
session, but rather an earlier time, when a getty was last
respawned on the tty line.

.SH BUGS

The
.B C
and
.B ADDR
fields currently always report 0.
The output resulting from using the format specification 
.B pcpu 
is also always 0.
.PP
When a machine's system time is corrected by timed or timeslave
and if the correction sets the time to an earlier value,
ps reports a meaningless huge or negative TIME value
for the timed or timeslave processes.

