.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rcp.1c	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/12/86
.\"
.TH rcp 1C
.SH NAME
rcp \- remote file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3rcp\f1 [ \f3\-p\f1 ] [ \f3\-v\f1 ] file1 file2
\f3rcp\f1 [ \f3\-p\f1 ] [ \f3\-r\f1 ] [ \f3\-v\f1 ] file ... directory
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rcp
copies files between machines.
Each
.I file
or
.I directory
argument has one of these forms:
.IP \(bu 3
A local filename,
.IR path ,
containing no \f3:\f1 characters,
or a \f3\e\f1 before any \f3:\f1's.
.IP \(bu 3
A remote filename of the
form \f2remhost\f1\f3:\f1\f2path\f1.
.IP \(bu 3
A remote filename of the
the form \f2remuser\f1\f3@\f1\f2remhost\f1\f3:\f1\f2path\f1,
which uses the user name
.I remuser
rather than the current user name on the remote host.
.PP
If
.I path
is not a full pathname, it is interpreted relative to
your login directory on
.IR remhost .
A
.I path
on a remote host can be quoted (using \f3\e\f1, \f3"\f1, or \f3\(aa\f1)
so that the metacharacters are interpreted remotely.
.PP
By default, the mode and owner of
.I file2
are preserved if it already existed; otherwise the mode of the source file
modified by the
.IR umask (2)
on the destination host is used.
.PP
The options to
.I rcp
are:
.TP
.B \-p
Causes
.I rcp
to attempt to preserve (duplicate) in its copies the modification
times and modes of the source files, ignoring the
.IR umask .
.TP
.B \-r
If any of the source files are directories,
.I rcp
copies each subtree rooted at that name; in this case
the destination must be a directory.
.TP
\f3\-v\f1
Causes the filename to be printed as it is copied
to or from a remote host.
.PP
.I rcp
does not prompt for passwords; your current local user name
must exist on
.I remhost
and allow remote command execution via
.IR rsh (1C).
.PP
.I rcp
handles third party copies, where neither source nor target files
are on the current machine.
Hostname-to-address translation of the target
host is performed on the source host.
.SH SEE ALSO
cp(1),
ftp(1C),
rlogin(1C),
rsh(1C),
hosts(4),
rhosts(4).
.SH BUGS
.I rcp
doesn't detect all cases where the target of a copy might
be a file in cases where only a directory should be legal.
.PP
The exit status is not correct in all error cases when both source and
destination are remote; this is due to a limitation of the protocol.
.PP
If you use
.IR csh (1),
.I rcp
does not work if
your \f2.cshrc\f1 file on the remote host
unconditionally executes
interactive or output-generating commands.
The message
.Ex
protocol screwup
.Ee
is displayed when this happens.
Put the offending commands inside the following conditional block:
.Ex
if ($?prompt) then
.sp .8v
endif
.Ee
so they won't interfere with
.IR rcp ,
.IR rsh ,
and other non-interactive,
.IR rcmd (3N)-based
programs.
.PP
.I rcp
cannot handle filenames that have embedded newline characters.
A newline character is a
.I rcp
protocol delimiter.
The error message when this happens is:
.Ex
protocol screwup: unexpected <newline>
.Ee
