'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RELNOTES 1
.SH NAME
relnotes \- on-line release notes viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B relnotes 
[ 
.B \-h
]
.br
.B relnotes
<product>
.br
.B relnotes
[ 
.B \-t 
] <product> <chapter> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I relnotes
is an interface to the on-line release notes.  It displays the release notes
by product and chapter using the 
.IR man\f1(1)
command.  It can also show which products' release notes are installed and
the title of each chapter installed.
.PP
With no arguments,
.I relnotes
shows which products have release notes installed. 
.TP 20
.B \-h 
shows how to use the command.
.TP
.B "\f2product\fP"
shows the chapters that are installed for the named product.  If no table of
contents file can be found, 
.I relnotes
shows you a list of chapter numbers.
.TP
.B "\f2product chapter ...\fP"
displays the specified chapter(s) from the named product's release notes.
If \f2chapter\fP is '*' (quoted asterisk), then all chapters are displayed
one after the other.
The display is done via the 
.IR man\f1(1) 
command.
.TP
.B "-t \f2product chapter ...\fP"
prints the specified chapter(s) from the named product's release notes.  The
resulting hardcopy won't be as nicely formatted as the hardcopy of the 
release notes that you received with the product tape, but will usually be sufficiently legible.
.SH NOTES
.TP
1.
The product and chapter can now be specified without using the
.B \-p
and 
.B \-c
options, so they are no longer supported.
.TP
2.
By default \f2relnotes\fP looks in the directory \f2/usr/relnotes\fP
for release notes. The environment variable \f3RELNOTESPATH\fP allows
a different release notes directory to be specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
man(1), grelnotes(1)
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP \w'/usr/relnotes/<product>/ch*.z\ \ \ \ 'u
/usr/relnotes/<product>/TC
table of contents file for <product>
.TP
/usr/relnotes/<product>/ch*.z
release notes for <product>
.TP
/tmp/relnotes.$$
temporary file
.\"     @(#)relnotes.1 30.3 of 1/14/86
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.sgi
