.TH Restore 1
.SH NAME
Restore \- restore the specified file or directory from tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3Restore\f1 [ \f2\-h hostname\f1 ] [ \f2\-t tapedevice\f1 ] [ \c
\f2directory_name\f1 | \f2file_name\f1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Restore
command copies the named file or directory from a local or remote backup
tapes to disk.
If no file or directory is specified,
.I Restore
copies all the files found on the tape to disk.
.PP
Files are restored into the current directory if the backup tape
contains pathnames beginning with "\f3.\f1".
.PP
Files on disk are overwritten even if they are more recent than
the respective files on tape.
.PP
The options and arguments to
.I Restore
are:
.TP 16
.BI \-h " hostname"
If a tape drive attached to a remote host is used for restoring, specify the
name of the remote host with the
.BI \-h " hostname"
option.
For remote restore to successfully work,
you should have a TCP/IP network connection to the remote host and
\f3guest\f1 login privileges on that host.
.TP
.BI \-t " tapedevice"
If the local or remote tape device is pointed to by a device file other
than
.IR /dev/tape ,
the device should be specified by the
.BI \-t " tapedevice"
option.
.TP
.I directory_name
Restore just the files in the directory
.IR directory_name .
This is not the inverse of passing a single directory to the
.I Backup
program.  It is intended for restoring only some directories
from a full backup.  To restore files when only a single directory
was archived with
.IR Backup ,
The wild card
.B *
must be used, since they are archived relative to the given
directory.  When in doubt, use 
.I List_tape
to see the archive contents.
.TP
.I file_name
Restore just the file
.IR file_name .
.PP
The
.I Restore
command expects the backup tape to be in the special
.IR bru (1),
.IR tar (1)
(older releases) or
.IR cpio (1)
(newer releases)
format written by
.IR Backup (1)
and by the System Manager Backup & Restore tool when doing
full (not partial) backups.
This is the same format used
for system recovery.
.SH SEE ALSO
Backup(1),
List_tape(1),
bru(1),
cpio(1),
tar(1).
