.TH rlogin 1C
.SH NAME
rlogin \- remote login
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3rlogin\f1 \f2rhost\f1 [ \f3\-l\f1 \f2username\f1 ] [ \f3\-e\f1\f2c\f1 ] \c
[ \f3\-L\f1 ] [ \f3\-8\f1 ]
\f3rlogin\f1 \f2username\f1\f3@\f1\f2rhost\f1 [ \f3\-e\f1\f2c\f1 ] \c
[ \f3\-L\f1 ] [ \f3\-8\f1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rlogin
connects your terminal on the current local host system
to the remote host system
.IR rhost .
The remote username used is the same as your local username,
unless you specify a different remote name with the
.B \-l
option or use the
.IB username @ rhost
format.
.PP
The \f2rlogin\f1 arguments and options are:
.TP 14
.I rhost
The hostname of the remote system.
.TP
.I username
The user ID to be used on the remote system.
.TP
.BI \-l " username"
Specifies the user ID to be used on the remote system.
.TP
.BI \-e c
Specifies a different escape character.
There is no space separating this option flag and the argument
character, \f2c\f1.
.TP
.B \-L
Allows the \f2rlogin\f1 session to be run in litout mode.
A line of the form \f3~.\f1 disconnects from the remote host, where
\f3~\f1 is the escape character.
A line starting with \f3~!\f1 starts a shell on the IRIS.
Similarly, the line \f3~^Z\f1 (where ^Z, <Ctrl-z>, is the suspend character)
suspends the \f2rlogin\f1 session if you are using
.IR csh (1).
.TP
.B \-8
Allows an 8-bit input data path at all times;
otherwise parity bits are stripped except when the remote side's
stop and start characters are other than ^S/^Q.
.PP
Each host has a file
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
that contains a list of remote hosts (equivalent hosts) with which
it shares account names.
The hostnames must be the standard names as described in
.IR rsh (1C).
When you
.I rlogin
as the same user on an equivalent host, you do not need
to give a password.
.PP
Each user can also have a private equivalence list in a file \f2.rhosts\f1
in his home directory.
Each line in this file should contain an \f2rhost\fP
and a \f2username\fP separated by a space, which gives an additional
remote host where logins without passwords are permitted.
If the originating user is not equivalent to the remote user, the remote
host prompts for
a login and password as in
.IR login (1).
To avoid some security problems, the \f2.rhosts\f1 file must be owned by
either the remote user or root.
.PP
The remote terminal type is the same as your local
terminal type (as given in your TERM environment variable).
The TERM
value \f3iris-ansi\f1 is converted
to \f3iris-ansi-net\f1 when sent to the host.
The terminal or window size is also copied to the remote system
if the server supports the option,
and changes in size are reflected as well.
All echoing takes place at the remote site, so that (except for
delays) the \f2rlogin\f1 is transparent.
Flow control via ^S and ^Q and
flushing of input and output on interrupts are handled properly.
.SH SEE ALSO
rsh(1C),
hosts(4),
rhosts(4).
.SH BUGS
Only the TERM environment variable is propagated.
The
.I rlogin
protocol should be extended to propagate useful variables, such as DISPLAY.
(Note that
.IR telnet (1C)
is able to propagate environment variables.)
