.TH rsh 1C
.SH NAME
rsh \- remote shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/usr/bsd/rsh\f1 host [ \f3\-l\f1 username ] [ \f3\-n\f1 ] command
\f3/usr/bsd/rsh\f1 username@host [ \f3\-n\f1 ] command
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rsh
connects to the specified
.I host,
and executes the specified \f2command\f1.
.I rsh
copies its standard input to the remote command, the standard
output of the remote command to its standard output, and the
standard error of the remote command to its standard error.
Interrupt, quit, and terminate signals are propagated to the remote
command; \f2rsh\fP normally terminates when the remote command does.
.PP
The remote username used is the same as your local username,
unless you specify a different remote name with the
.B \-l
option or the
.I username@host
format.
This remote name must be equivalent (in the sense of
.IR rlogin (1C))
to the originating account; no provision
is made for specifying a password with a command.
.PP
If you omit
.IR command ,
instead of executing a single command, you are logged in
on the remote host using
.IR rlogin (1C).
In this case,
.I rsh
understands the additional arguments to
.IR rlogin .
.PP
Shell metacharacters that are not quoted are interpreted
on local machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on
the remote machine.
Thus the command
.Ex
\f4rsh otherhost cat remotefile >> localfile\f1
.Ee
appends the remote file
.I remotefile
to the localfile
.IR localfile ,
while
.Ex
\f4rsh otherhost cat remotefile ">>" otherremotefile\f1
.Ee
appends
.I remotefile
to
.IR otherremotefile .
.SH SEE ALSO
rlogin(1C),
hosts(4),
rhosts(4).
.SH BUGS
If you use
.IR csh (1),
.I rsh
does not work if
your \f2.cshrc\f1 file on the remote host
unconditionally executes
interactive or output-generating commands.
Put these commands inside the following conditional block:
.Ex
if ($?prompt) then
.sp .8v
endif
.Ee
so they won't interfere with
.IR rcp ,
.IR rsh ,
and other non-interactive,
.IR rcmd (3N)-based
programs.
.PP
If you put a
.IR rsh (1C)
in the background without redirecting its input
away from the terminal, it blocks even if no reads
are posted by the remote command.
If no input is desired,
you should use the
.B \-n
option, which redirects the input of
.I rsh
to
.IR /dev/null .
.PP
You cannot run an interactive command
(like
.IR vi (1));
use
.IR rlogin (1C).
.PP
Job control signals stop the local \f2rsh\fP process only; this is arguably
wrong, but currently hard to fix.
