'\"macro stdmacro
.TH RTMON-RUN 1
.SH NAME
\fBrtmon-run\fP \- enable system call event tracing
.SH SYNOPSIS
rtmon-run
.BI \-c " cookie"
[
.B \-i
] [
.BI \-p " pid"
] [
.BI \-t " secs"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rtmon-run
is used in conjuction with
.BR rtmon-client (1)
to collect system call and context switch events from a remote machine.
.B rtmon-run
marks one or more processes for system call and context switch event tracing
and then pauses waiting for an interrupt or a time limit
to expire.
If no processes are specified on the command line, the
entire system is monitored.
Event collection must be done separately; typically
from another machine with the
.B rtmon-client
application.
.B rtmon-run
must be run on the machine where the processes to be traced
are located because it must access the
.B /dev/par
special file to enable system call and context switch tracing for
the processes.
.B rtmon-run
is normally not needed; the
.BR par (1)
and
.BR padc (1)
programs are the preferred means for collecting event traces.
The only reason to use
.B rtmon-run
instead of 
.B padc
is to avoid any overhead associated with running
.B padc
on the system where data is to be collected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " cookie"
Use 
.I cookie
when enabling system call tracing for the specified processes.
A cookie is a magic number that is used by
.BR rtmond (1)
to determine which client programs may receive system call event data.
The cookie to pass to
.B rtmon-run
is obtained by specifying the
.B \-v
option when starting
.BR rtmon-client (1).
The
.B rtmon-client
program must be started before running
.B rtmon-run
in order to obtain a valid cookie to supply as a parameter to the
.B \-c
option.
.TP
.B \-i
Inherit system call event tracing to future children of the
specified processes.
.TP
.B \-r
This option marks the specified processes for collection of context switch
events.  If no processes are specified, all processes which you have access
privileges will be marked.  This option is really only useful when used with
the
.B taskproc
event mask class of
.B rtmon-client
since the
.B task
event class can be used collect context switch events for all execution
threads without the use of
.BR rtmon-run .
.TP
.B \-s
This option marks the specified processes for collection of system call
events.  Since this is the default it serves the sole purpose of preventing
needless complaints from
.B rtmon-run
when a user absent-mindedly types in
.B \-s
while thinking in terms of
.BR padc / par ...
.TP
.BI \-p " pid"
Enable system call tracing for the process 
.IR pid .
This option may be used multiple times to enable tracing
of multiple processes.
Processes specified with this
option must belong to the current user unless the user
has super-user privilege.
.TP
.BI \-t " secs"
Collect tracing information for 
.I secs
seconds before terminating.
If this option is not specified then 
.B rtmon-run
will pause until it is interrupted from the keyboard or by
receiving a signal.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'\f4/dev/par\fP    'u
\f4/dev/par\fP	for enabling system event tracing
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4par\fP(1),
\f4padc\fP(1),
\f4rtmon-client\fP(1),
\f4rtmond\fP(1),
\f4par\fP(7).
