'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)rusers.1c	1.3 87/07/28 3.2/4.3NFSSRC
.TH RUSERS 1C "5 July 1985"
.SH NAME
rusers \- who's logged in on local machines (RPC version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rusers
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-h
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-n
num ] [
.B \-u
] [
host \f3.\|.\|.\fP
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rusers command"  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is logged in on local network"
.IX  "who is logged in on local network"  ""  "who is logged in on local network \(em \fLrusers\fP"
.IX  network  rusers  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is logged in on local network"
.IX  login  rusers  ""  "\fLrusers\fP \(em who is on local network"
The
.I rusers
command produces a listing of users
on remote machines.  It broadcasts on the local network,
and prints the responses it receives.
Normally, the listing is in the order that responses are received,
but this order can be
changed by specifying one of the options listed below.
When \f2host\fP arguments are given, rather than broadcasting
.I rusers
will only query the list of specified hosts.
.LP
The default is to print out a listing 
with one line per machine.  When the \f3\-l\fP flag is given, a
.IR who (1)
style listing is used.  In addition, if
a user has not typed to the system for a minute or more,
the idle time is reported.
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the
.I rusersd
daemon, which is normally started up from
.I inetd.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-a
Gives a report for a machine even if 
no users are logged on.
.TP 
.B \-h
Sort alphabetically by host name.
.TP 
.B \-i
Sort by idle time.
.TP 
.B \-l
Give a longer listing in the style of
.IR who .
.TP
.B \-n
Set the maximum number of hosts that can be listed.  Default is 200.
.TP 
.B \-u
Sort by number of users.
.SH SEE ALSO
rwho(1C), inetd(1M), rusersd(1M)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Broadcasting does not work through gateways.
