'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.sar @(#)sar	30.10 of 3/27/86
.TH SAR 1
.SH NAME
sar \- system activity reporter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sar
.RB [\| \-ubdDFycwaqvmprtghIAUTR\| ]
.RB [\| \-o\0 file\|]
t [ n ]
.PP
.B sar
.RB [\| \-ubdDFycwaqvmprtghIAUTR\| ]
.RB [\| \-s\0 time\|]
.RB [\| \-e\0 time\|]
.RB [\| \-i\0 sec\|]
.RB [\| \-f\0 file\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR sar,
in the first instance,
samples cumulative activity counters in the operating system
at
.I n
intervals of
.I t
seconds, where \f2t\f1 should be 5 or greater.
If the
.B \-o
option is specified, it saves
the samples in
.I file
in binary format.
The default value of
.I n
is 1.
In the second instance, with no sampling interval specified,
.B sar
extracts data from a previously
recorded
.IR file,
either the one specified
by
.B \-f
option
or, by default,
the standard system activity daily data file
.BI /var/adm/sa/sa dd\^
for the current day
.IR dd.
The starting and ending times of the report
can be bounded via the
.B \-s
and
.B \-e
.I time
arguments of the form
.IR hh [: mm [: ss ]].\^
The
.B \-i
option selects records at
.I sec
second intervals.
Otherwise, all intervals found in the data file are reported.
.PP
In either case,
subsets of data to be printed are specified by option:
.PP
.TP 5
.B \-u
Report
.SM CPU
utilization (the default):
.br
%usr, %sys, %intr, %wio, %idle, %sbrk \- portion of time running in user mode,
running in system mode, processing interrupts,
idle with some process waiting for
.SM I/O,
completely idle or idle with some process waiting because system
memory is scarce, respectively.
These six percentages add up to 100%.
The time that the processor spent in ``idle waiting for I/O''
state is further broken down into the following categories:
.br
.sp .3
%wfs - waiting for file system I/O
.br
%wswp - waiting for swap I/O to complete
.br
%wphy - waiting for physio other than swapping
.br
%wgsw - waiting for graphics context switch to complete
.br
%wfif - waiting while graphics pipe too full
.sp .3
These five numbers add up to 100% of the %wio time.
.TP
.B \-b
Report buffer activity:
.br
bread/s, bwrit/s \- basic blocks transferred between system buffers and disk
or other block devices;
.br
lread/s, lwrit/s \- basic blocks transferred from system buffers to user memory;
.br
wcncl/s \- pending writes in system buffers cancelled;
.br
%rcach, %wcach \- cache hit ratios, that is, (1\-bread/lread) as a percentage;
.br
pread/s, pwrit/s \- basic block transfers via raw (physical) device mechanism.
.TP
.B \-d
See also \f3-D\f1 and \f3-F\f1 below.
Report activity for block devices (i.e. disk drives).
The activity data reported is:
.br
device \- /dev/dsk device name (sans parition)
.br
%busy \- % of time device was busy performing I/O requests;
.br
avque \- average number of I/O requests outstanding;
.br
r+w/s \- number of read AND write I/O requests per second;
.br
blks/s \- number of 512-byte blocks (basic block) read AND written;
.br
w/s \- number of write I/O requests per second;
.br
blks/s \- number of 512-byte blocks (basic block) written;
.br
avwait \- average time in ms. that I/O requests wait idly on queue;
.br
avserv \- average time in ms. to service I/O requests (which for disks includes 
seek, rotational latency and data transfer time).
.TP
.B \-D
This option is identical to \f3-d\f1
above except that it does not report idle disks (disks that transferred
no data blocks).
.TP
.B \-F
This option is only meaningful in conjunction with \f3-d\f1 or \f3-D\f1.
It is designed to be used with fabric devices that have long names that
would make line formatting uneven.  It causes the device name to be
printed on the right of the output lines rather than on the left.
.TP
.B \-y
Report TTY device activity:
.br
rawch/s, canch/s, outch/s \- input character rate,
input character rate processed by canon,
output character rate;
.br
rcvin/s, xmtin/s, mdmin/s \- receive, transmit and modem interrupt rates.
.TP
.B \-c
Report system calls:
.br
scall/s \- system calls of all types;
.br
sread/s, swrit/s, fork/s, exec/s \- specific system calls;
.br
rchar/s, wchar/s \- characters transferred by read and write
system calls.
.TP
.B \-w
Report system swapping and switching activity:
.br
swpin/s, swpot/s, bswin/s, bswot/s \- number of transfers
and number of 512-byte units transferred for swapins
and swapouts
(including initial loading of some programs);
.br
pswpout/s \- process swapouts
.br
pswch/s \- process (user thread) switches.
.br
kswch/s \- kernel thread switches.
.TP
.B \-g
Report graphics activity:
.br
gcxsw/s - graphics context switches per second
.br
ginpt/s - graphics input driver calls per second
.br
gintr/s - graphics interrupts other than FIFO interrupts per second
.br
fintr/s - FIFO too full interrupts per second
.br
swpbf/s - swap buffers calls per second
.TP
.B \-a
Report use of file access system routines:
.br
iget/s, namei/s, dirblk/s.
.TP
.B \-q
Report average queue length while occupied, and % of time occupied:
.br
runq-sz, %runocc \- run queue of processes in memory and runnable;
.br
swpq-sz, %swpocc \- swap queue of processes swapped out but ready to run;
.br
wioq-sz, %wioocc \- queue of processes waiting for I/O.
.TP
.B \-v
Report status of process, i-node, file tables and record lock tables:
.br
proc-sz, inod-sz, file-sz, lock-sz \- entries/size
for each table, evaluated once at sampling point;
.br
ov \- overflows that occur between sampling points for each table.
.TP
.B \-m
Report message and semaphore activities:
.br
msg/s, sema/s \- primitives per second.
.TP
.B \-p
Report paging activities:
.br
vflt/s \- address translation page faults (valid page not in memory);
.br
dfill/s \- address translation fault on demand fill or demand zero page;
.br
cache/s \- address translation fault page reclaimed from page cache;
.br
pgswp/s \- address translation fault page reclaimed from swap space;
.br
pgfil/s \- address translation fault page reclaimed from file system;
.br
pflt/s \- (hardware) protection faults -- including illegal access to
page and writes to (software) writable pages;
.br
cpyw/s \- protection fault on shared copy-on-write page;
.br
steal/s \- protection fault on unshared writable page;
.br
rclm/s \- pages reclaimed by paging daemon.
.sp .5
Dfill, cache, pgswp, and pgfil are subsets of vflt; cpyw and steal are
subsets of pflt.
.TP
.B \-t
Report translation lookaside buffer (TLB) activities:
.br
tflt/s \- user page table or kernel virtual address translation faults:
address translation not resident in TLB;
.br
rflt/s \- page reference faults (valid page in memory, but hardware valid bit
disabled to emulate hardware reference bit);
.br
sync/s \- TLBs flushes on all processors;
.br
vmwrp/s \- syncs caused by clean (with respect to TLB)
kernel virtual memory depletion;
.br
flush/s \- single processor TLB flushes;
.br
idwrp/s \- flushes because TLB ids have been depleted;
.br
idget/s \- new TLB ids issued;
.br
idprg/s \- tlb ids purged from process;
.br
vmprg/s \- individual TLB entries purged.
.TP
.B \-r
Report unused memory pages and disk blocks:
.br
freemem \- average pages available to user processes;
.br
freeswap \- disk blocks available for process swapping;
.br
vswap \- virtual pages available to user processes.
.TP
.B \-h
Report system heap statistics:
.br
heapmem \- amount of memory currently allocated to all kernel dynamic heaps
(block managed arenas, general zone heaps, and private zone heaps);
.br
overhd \- block managed arena overhead;
.br
unused \- block managed arena memory available for allocation;
.br
alloc/s \- number of allocation requests per second;
.br
free/s \- number of free requests per second.
.TP
.B \-I
Report interrupt statistics:
.br
intr/s \- non-vme interrupts per second;
.br
vmeintr/s \- vme interrupts per second;
.TP
.B \-U
Report per-CPU utilization statistics:
.br
Same as -u option except each CPU is shown.
.TP
.B \-R
Report memory statistics 
.br
physmem \- physical pages of memory on system;
.br
kernel \- pages in use by the kernel;
.br
user \- pages in use by user programs;
.br
fsctl \- pages in use by file system to control buffers;
.br
fsdelwr \- pages in use by file system for delayed-write buffers;
.br
fsdata \- pages in use by file system for read-only data buffers;
.br
freedat \- pages of free memory that may be reclaimable;
.br
empty \- pages of free memory that are empty.
.TP
.B \-A
Report all data.  Equivalent to
.BR \-udqbwcayvmprtghIUR .
.TP
.B \-T
Report total counts instead of just percentages or per-second values.
The counts are calculated by taking the difference between the start and end
values in the data file.
.SH EXAMPLES
To see today's
.SM CPU
activity so far:
.PP
.RS
sar
.RE
.PP
To watch
.SM CPU
activity evolve for 10 minutes and save data:
.PP
.RS
sar \|\-o temp 60 10
.RE
.PP
To later review disk activity from that period:
.PP
.RS
sar \|\-d \|\-f temp
.RE
.PP
To show total disk activity from that period:
.PP
.RS
sar \|\-T \|\-d \|\-f temp
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 15
/var/adm/sa/sa\f2dd\f1
daily data file, where
.I dd\^
are digits representing the day of the month.
.SH SEE ALSO
gr_osview(1), osview(1), sar(1M)
.\"	@(#)sar.1	6.3 of 1/4/84
.Ee
