'\"macro stdmacro
.\"	$Revision: 1.3 $
.\"
.if n .pH man1.smtinfo @(#)smtinfo	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH SMTINFO 1
.UC 5
.SH NAME
smtinfo \- get and display FDDI SMT station information 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/smtinfo
[ 
.B \-covd
] [
.B \-I
.I interface
]
.I address
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I smtinfo 
command displays the contents of configuration or operation
Station Information Frames (SIFs) for a specified FDDI station.
.PP
The options have the following meaning:
.TP
.B \-c
Show station configuration information for the specified host.
.TP
.B \-o
Show station operation information for the specified host.
.TP
.B \-v
Show the SMT versions supported by the SMT on the specified host.
This option is the default.
.TP
.B \-d
Show some debugging information of no interest to anyone except the
maintainers of the smtinfo command and smtd daemon.
.TP
.BI \-I " interface"
Use
.I interface
to get and display FDDI SMT station information.
The
.I interface
is a string of the form ``name unit'', for example, ``ipg0''.
The default is set to the station's primary interface
.TP
.I address
is the MAC address or host name of a remote FDDI station.
The MAC address format is 
6 hexadecimal numbers separated by colons (e.g., 8:0:69:1f:a:6d).
If a host name is specified, its MAC address is obtained
from 
.I /etc/ethers 
or the NIS
.I ethers.byname
map.
.SH FILES
/etc/ethers	MAC address database
.SH SEE ALSO
smtstat(1), smtd(1M)
.SH BUGS
.I smtinfo 
can't obtain information for the machine it is running on.
