'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)smtstat.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 5/8/86
.\"
.if n .pH man1.smtstat @(#)smtstat	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH SMTSTAT 1
.UC 5
.SH NAME
smtstat \- show FDDI SMT status 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/smtstat
[ 
.B \-nvCbi
] [
.B \-I
.I interface
] [
.I interval
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I smtstat 
command displays the contents of various FDDI-related
data structures and Station Management (SMT) values.
.P
When
invoked without any options, 
.I smtstat
shows the state of FDDI interfaces
which have been set with \f3smtconfig\f1.
By default, the first interface turned on is shown.
See the comments in \f2/etc/config/netif.options\f1 for details.
.PP
The default display shows various MAC statistics such
as packet, frame and token counts and rates and transmit
and receive error counts.
.P
.PP
The options have the following meaning:
.TP
.B \-n
Show MAC addresses and SMT values as numbers.
In continuous mode (\f3\-C\f1),
certain SMT values are displayed symbolically, and 
MAC addresses are converted into names using
the data bases
.I /etc/ethers
or the NIS
.I ethers.byname
map.  If a symbolic name for an address is unknown, or if
the 
.B \-n
option is specified, the MAC address is printed numerically as
6 hexadecimal numbers separated by colons (for example, 8:0:69:1f:a:6d).
This can be toggled with the N mode command.
.TP
.B \-v
Display more information. With
.BR \-v ,
additional kernel-level information is displayed.
With
.BR \-vv ,
additional daemon-level information is displayed.
.TP
.B \-C
Continuously show FDDI activity of all configured interfaces.
To display properly, the window or screen should be at least 24 
lines high by 80 columns wide.
The
.BR \-v ,
.BR \-b ,
and
.B \-i
options are ignored with this option.
.sp
The default screen shows I/O and error counters. 
Once inside 
.IR smtstat ,
certain keys change the program's behavior.
The
keys and their effects are as follows:
.RS
.IP 1
Display the MAC activity and error counters.
.IP 2
Display Port status and error counters.
.IP 3
Display ring management information.
.IP 4
Display configuration information.
.IP 5
Display neighbor information.
.IP 6
Display other SMT information.
.IP d
Display incremental values of chosen information over given interval in second.
Default interval is 1 second.
.IP z
Display incremental values of chosen information since the time when ``z'' key
was typed.
.IP r
Display current total values of chosen information.
.IP n
Toggle between numeric and symbolic display.
.IP +\ \-
Next or previous interface.
.IP ^L
Redraw the screen.
.IP q
quit the program.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-I " interface"
Show information only about this interface (for example, ipg0); used with an
.I interval
as described below.
The interface display provides a table of cumulative
statistics regarding packets transferred, errors, and status of
each SMT state machine like Ring Management (RMT),
Configuration Management (CFM),
Connection Management (CMT), and Entity Coordination Management (ECM).
The network address and symbolic name of the interface are also displayed.
.TP
.B \-i
Show all FDDI interfaces, except in continuous mode (\f3\-C\f1).
.TP
.B \-b
Show addresses in FDDI bit order instead of canonical bit order,
except in continuous mode.
.TP
.I interval
With an 
.I interval
specified,
.I smtstat
will fetch and display the information regarding FDDI states
and counters on the configured FDDI interfaces every
.I interval
seconds.
.SH "FILES"
/etc/ethers	MAC address database
.SH SEE ALSO
smtinfo(1), smtd(1M), smtconfig(1M)
.SH BUGS
The counters and states displays may be slightly behind the actual values.
