'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.srchtxt @(#)srchtxt	41.8 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} srchtxt 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} srchtxt 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} srchtxt 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} srchtxt "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4srchtxt\f1 \- display contents of, or search for a text string in, message databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4srchtxt\f1
\f1[\f4\-s\f1]
\f1[\f4\-i\f1
.IR msgnum ]
\f1[\f4\-l\f1
.IR locale ]
\f1[\f4\-m\f1
\f2msgfile\f4,\f1
.IR \&.\|.\|. ]
.RI [ text ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4srchtxt\fP utility is used to display all the text strings in message databases,
or to search for a text string in message databases
[see
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1)].
These databases are files in the directory
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES\f1
[see
\f4setlocale\fP(3C)],
unless a file name given with the
\f4\-m\f1
option contains a
\f4/\f1.
The directory
.I locale
can be viewed as the name of the language in which the text strings are written.
When the
\f4\-l\f1
option is not used,
the \f2locale\f1 directory searched is specified
by the \f4LC_MESSAGES\f1 environment variable if it is
set to a non-empty value.
Otherwise, it is specified by the environment variable
\f4LANG\f1 if it is set to a non-empty value.
Otherwise, the directory \f4C\f1 is used.
Text strings may contain supplementary code set characters.
.P
If no
.I text
argument is present,
then all the text strings in the files accessed will be displayed.
.P
The meanings of the options are as follows:
.TP 12
\f4\-s\f1
suppress printing of the message sequence numbers of the messages being displayed
.TP 12
\f4\-l\f2 locale\f1
access files in the directory
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES\f1.
If
\f4\-m\fP \f2msgfile\fP is also supplied,
\f2locale\fP is ignored for
\f2msgfile\fPs
containing a \f4/\fP.
.TP 12
\f4\-m\f2 msgfile\f1
access file(s) specified by one or more
.IR msgfile s.
If
.IR msgfile
contains a
\f4/\f1
character,
then
.I msgfile is
interpreted as a pathname;
otherwise,
it will be assumed to be in the directory determined as described above.
To specify more than one
.IR msgfile ,
separate the file names using commas.
.TP 12
\f4\-i\f2 msgnum\f1
display only the message whose numeric id equals \f2msgnum\f1.
This option should not normally be used with a search text.
.TP 12
.I text
search for the text string specified by
.I text
and display each one that matches.
.I text
can take the form of a regular expression
[see
\f4ed\fP(1)].
.P
If the
\f4\-s\f1
option is not specified, 
the displayed text is prefixed
by message sequence numbers.
The message sequence numbers are enclosed in angle brackets:
\f4<\f2msgfile\f4:\f2msgnum\f4>.\f1
.TP 12
.I msgfile
name of the file where the displayed text occurred
.TP 12
.I msgnum
sequence number in
.I msgfile
where the displayed text occurred
.P
This display is in the format used by
\f4gettxt\fP(1)
and
\f4gettxt\fP(3C).
.SH EXAMPLES
The following examples show uses of \f4srchtxt\fP.
.P
Example 1:
.P
.RS
If message files have been installed in a locale named
\f4french\f1
by using
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1),
then you could display the entire set of text strings in the
\f4french\f1
locale
\f1(\f4/usr/lib/locale/french/LC_MESSAGES/\(**\f1)
by entering:
.sp .5
	\f4srchtxt \-l french\f1
.RE
.P
Example 2:
.P
.RS
If a set of error messages associated with the UNIX operating system
have been installed in the file
\f4UX\f1
in the
\f4french\f1
locale
\f1(\f4/usr/lib/locale/french/LC_MESSAGES/UX\f1),
then, using the value of the
\f4LANG\f1
environment variable to determine the locale to be searched,
you could search that file in that locale
for all error messages dealing with files
by entering:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
LANG=french; export LANG
.br
srchtxt \-m UX "[Ff]ichier"
.ft
.RE
.P
If
\f4/usr/lib/locale/french/LC_MESSAGES/UX\f1
contained the following strings:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
Erreur E/S\en
Liste d'arguments trop longue\en
Fichier inexistant\en
Argument invalide\en
Trop de fichiers ouverts\en
Fichier trop long\en
Trop de liens\en
Argument hors du domaine\en
Identificateur supprim\en
Etreinte fatale\en
  .
  .
  .
.ft
.fi
.RE
.P
then the following strings would be displayed:
.RS
.nf
.ft 4
<UX:3>Fichier inexistant\en
<UX:5>Trop de fichiers ouverts\en
<UX:6>Fichier trop long\en
.ft
.fi
.RE
.RE
.P
Example 3:
.P
.RS
If a set of error messages associated with the UNIX operating system
has been installed in the file
\f4UX\f1
and a set of error messages associated with the INGRESS database product
have been installed in the file
\f4ingress\f1,
both in the
\f4german\f1
locale,
then you could search for the pattern
\f4[Dd]atei\f1
in both the files
\f4UX\f1
and
\f4ingress\f1
in the
\f4german\f1
locale by entering:
.P
.RS
.ft 4
srchtxt \-l german \-m UX,ingress "[Dd]atei"
.ft
.RE
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 40
\f4/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/\(**\f1
default files created by
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1)
.TP 40
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/\(**\f1
message files created by
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1)
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4ed\fP(1),
\f4exstr\fP(1),
\f4gettxt\fP(1),
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1),
\f4gettxt\fP(3C),
\f4setlocale\fP(3C),
\f4environ\fP(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The error messages produced by \f4srchtxt\fP
are intended to be self-explanatory.
They indicate an error in the command line or errors
encountered while searching for a particular locale
and/or message file.
.Ee
