'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.stty @(#)stty	30.5 of 3/7/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} STTY 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} STTY 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} STTY 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} STTY "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
stty \- set the options for a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stty
[
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-g
] [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I stty\^
sets certain terminal \s-1I/O\s+1 options for the device that is
the current standard input;
without arguments, it reports the settings of certain options.
.PP
In this report, if a character is preceded by a caret (^),
then the value of that option is the corresponding \s-1CTRL\s0 character
(e.g.,
.RB `` ^H ''
is
.B \s-1CTRL\s0-H ;
in this case,
recall that
.B \s-1CTRL\s0-H
is the same as the ``backspace'' key.)
The sequence
.RB `` ^\(aa ''
means that an option has a null value.
For example,
normally
.B "stty \-a"
will report that the value of
.B swtch
is
.RB `` ^\(aa '';
however, if
.IR csh (1)
is used,
.B swtch
will have the value
.RB `` ^Z ''.
.TP
.B \-a
reports all of the option settings;
.TP
.B \-g
reports current settings in a form that can be used as an argument
to another
.I stty\^
command; this does not include the \fBrows\fP and \fBcolumns\fP values.
.PP
Options in the last group are implemented using options in the previous
groups.
Note that many combinations of options make no sense, but no sanity
checking is performed.
The options are
selected from the following:
.sp
.PD 0
.ne 3v
.SS Control Modes
.TP 10m
.BR parenb " (" \-parenb )
enable (disable) parity generation and detection.
.TP
.BR parodd " (" \-parodd )
select odd (even) parity.
.TP
.B "cs5 cs6 cs7 cs8"
select character size (see
.IR termio (7)).
.TP
.B 0
hang up phone line immediately.
.TP
.B "110 300 600 1200 1800 2400 4800 9600 19200 38400 57600 115200 etc."
Set terminal input and output baud rate to the number given, if possible.
(All speeds are not supported by all hardware interfaces.)
.TP
.B ispeed " (" <speed> )
where 
.B speed
is a baud rate as defined above, set only the input baud rate to the
given value, if possible (some hardware may require the input and
output baud rate to be the same). If the speed specified is 0, set the
input speed to match the output speed.
.TP
.B ospeed " (" <speed> )
where 
.B speed
is a baud rate as defined above, set only the output baud rate to the
given value, if possible (some hardware may require the input and
output baud rate to be the same). If the speed specified is 0, a
hangup is generated.
.TP
.BR hupcl " (" \-hupcl )
hang up (do not hang up)
serial-line connections on last close.
.TP
.BR hup " (" \-hup )
same as
.BR hupcl " (" \-hupcl ).
.TP
.BR cstopb " (" \-cstopb )
use two (one) stop bits per character.
.TP
.BR cread " (" \-cread )
enable (disable) the receiver.
.TP
.BR clocal " (" \-clocal )
assume a line without (with) modem control.
.TP
.BR cnew_rtscts " (" \-cnew_rtscts )
enable (disable) RTS/CTS flow control.
.TP
.BR loblk " (" \-loblk )
block (do not block) output from a background job.
.TP
.BR tostop " (" \-tostop )
block (do not block) output from a background job (same as \f3loblk\f1).
.sp
.ne 3v
.SS Input Modes
.TP 10m
.BR ignbrk " (" \-ignbrk )
ignore (do not ignore) break on input.
.TP
.BR brkint " (" \-brkint )
signal (do not signal) \s-1INTR\s+1 on break.
.TP
.BR ignpar " (" \-ignpar )
ignore (do not ignore) parity errors.
.TP
.BR parmrk " (" \-parmrk )
mark (do not mark) parity errors (see
.IR termio (7)).
.TP
.BR inpck " (" \-inpck )
enable (disable) input parity checking.
.TP
.BR istrip " (" \-istrip )
strip (do not strip) input characters to seven bits.
.TP
.BR inlcr " (" \-inlcr )
map (do not map) \s-1NL\s+1 to \s-1CR\s+1 on input.
.TP
.BR igncr " (" \-igncr )
ignore (do not ignore) \s-1CR\s+1 on input.
.TP
.BR icrnl " (" \-icrnl )
map (do not map) \s-1CR\s+1 to \s-1NL\s+1 on input.
.TP
.BR iuclc " (" \-iuclc )
map (do not map) upper-case alphabetics to lower case on input.
.TP
.BR ixon " (" \-ixon )
enable (disable) \s-1START\s+1/\s-1STOP\s+1
output control.  Output is stopped by sending
the stop character (default is \s-1CTRL-S\s+1) and started by sending the 
start character (default is \s-1CTRL-Q\s+1). 
.TP
.BR ixany " (" \-ixany )
allow any character (only the start character like \s-1CTRL-Q\s+1) 
to restart output.
.TP
.BR decctlq " (" \-decctlq )
allow only the start character like \s-1CTRL-Q\s+1
(allow any character) to restart output.
An alias for
.BR \-ixany .
.TP
.BR ixoff " (" \-ixoff )
request that the system send (not send) \s-1START/STOP\s+1 characters
when the input queue is nearly empty/full.
.TP
.BR imaxbel " (" \-imaxbel )
echo
.B BEL
if the input stream overflows.
.sp
.ne 3v
.SS Output Modes
.TP 10m
.BR opost " (" \-opost )
post-process output (do not post-process output; ignore all other output modes).
.TP
.BR olcuc " (" \-olcuc )
map (do not map) lower-case alphabetics to upper case on output.
.TP
.BR onlcr " (" \-onlcr )
map (do not map) \s-1NL\s+1 to \s-1CR-NL\s+1 on output.
.TP
.BR ocrnl " (" \-ocrnl )
map (do not map) \s-1CR\s+1 to \s-1NL\s+1 on output.
.TP
.BR onocr " (" \-onocr )
do not (do) output \s-1CR\s+1s at column zero.
.TP
.BR onlret " (" \-onlret )
on the terminal \s-1NL\s+1 performs (does not perform) the \s-1CR\s+1 function.
.TP
.BR ofill " (" \-ofill )
use fill characters (use timing) for delays.
.TP
.BR ofdel " (" \-ofdel )
fill characters are \s-1DEL\s+1s (\s-1NUL\s+1s).
.TP
.B "cr0 cr1 cr2 cr3"
select style of delay for carriage returns (see
.IR termio (7)).
.TP
.B "nl0 nl1"
select style of delay for line-feeds (see
.IR termio (7)).
.TP
.B "tab0 tab1 tab2 tab3"
select style of delay for horizontal tabs (see
.IR termio (7)).
.TP
.B "bs0 bs1"
select style of delay for backspaces (see
.IR termio (7)).
.TP
.B "ff0 ff1"
select style of delay for form-feeds (see
.IR termio (7)).
.TP
.B "vt0 vt1"
select style of delay for vertical tabs (see
.IR termio (7)).
.sp
.ne 3v
.SS Local Modes
.TP 10m
.BR isig " (" \-isig )
enable (disable) the checking of characters against the special control
characters \s-1INTR\s+1, \s-1QUIT\s+1 and \s-1SWTCH\s+1.
.TP
.BR icanon " (" \-icanon )
enable (disable) canonical input (\s-1ERASE\s+1 and \s-1KILL\s+1 processing).
.TP
.BR xcase " (" \-xcase )
canonical (unprocessed) upper/lower-case presentation.
.TP
.BR echo " (" \-echo )
echo back (do not echo back) every character typed.
.TP
.BR echoe " (" \-echoe )
echo (do not echo) \s-1ERASE\s+1 character as
a backspace-space-backspace string.  Note: this mode will erase the
\s-1ERASE\s+1ed character on many \s-1CRT\s+1 terminals;
however, it does
.I not\^
keep track of column position and, as a result, may be confusing
on escaped characters, tabs, and backspaces.
.TP
.BR echok " (" \-echok )
echo (do not echo) \s-1NL\s+1 after \s-1KILL\s+1 character.
.TP
.BR lfkc " (" \-lfkc )
the same as
.BR echok " (" \-echok );
obsolete.
.TP
.BR echoke " ("\-echoke )
echo (do not echo) the \s-1KILL\s+1
character by erasing each character on the line
from the screen (using the mechanism selected by
.B echoe
and
.BR echoprt ).
.TP
.BR echoctl " (" \-echoctl )
Echo (do not echo) control characters as ^char, delete as ^?.
.TP
.BR echoprt " (" \-echoprt )
Echo (do not echo) erase character as character erased.
.TP
.BR echonl " (" \-echonl )
echo (do not echo) \s-1NL\s+1.
.TP
.BR noflsh " (" \-noflsh )
disable (enable) flush after \s-1INTR\s+1, \s-1QUIT\s+1 or \s-1SWTCH\s+1.
.TP
.BR flusho " (" \-flusho )
If set, data written to the terminal is discarded.  This bit is automatically
set when the flush/discard control-character (see below) is typed.  This
bit is automatically cleared by subsequent input from the terminal.
.TP
.BR pendin " (" \-pendin )
Retype pending input at next read or input char then automatically clear
.BR pendin .
.\"
.\" XXXrs - these don't apply to IRIX
.\"
.\" .TP
.\" .BR stwrap " (" \-stwrap )
.\" disable (enable) truncation of lines longer than 79 characters on a synchronous
.\" line.
.\" .\"(Does not apply to the 3B2.) 
.\" .TP
.\" .BR stflush " (" \-stflush )
.\" enable (disable) flush on a synchronous line after every
.\" .IR write (2).
.\" .\"  (Does not apply to the 3B2.)
.\" .TP
.\" .BR stappl " (" \-stappl )
.\" use application mode (use line mode) on a synchronous line.
.\" .\"(Does not apply to the 3B2.)
.sp
.ne 3v
.SS Control Assignments
.TP 10m
.BI line " i\^"
set the line discipline to
0 (standard System V discipline)
or 1 (4.3BSD 
.IR csh (1)
discipline).
.TP 10m
.BI rows " n\^"
set the number of rows for the terminal, used by some screen
oriented programs.  This is currently supported only on pty devices.
.TP 10m
.BI cols " n\^"
(or \fBcolumns\fP) set the number of columns for the terminal, used by some screen
oriented programs.  This is currently supported only on pty devices.
.TP
.I "control-character c\^"
set
.I control-character\^
to
.IR c ,
where
.I control-character\^
is
.BR intr ", " quit ", " erase ", " kill ,
.BR eof ", " eol ", " old-swtch ", " susp ,
.BR min ", or " time .
.RB ( min
and
.B time
are used with
.BR \-icanon "; see"
.IR termio (7)).
If line discipline is set to 1,
the following 
.I control-characters\^
can be set:
.BR lnext ", " werase ", " rprnt ,
.BR flush " (a.k.a. " discard "), " stop ", " start ", " dsusp .
If
.I c\^
is preceded by an (escaped from the shell) caret
.RB ( ^ ),
then the value used is the corresponding \s-1CTRL\s+1 character
(e.g.,
.RB `` ^D ''
is a
.BR \s-1CTRL\s+1-D );
.RB `` ^? ''
is interpreted as \s-1DEL\s+1 and
.RB `` ^\- ''
or
.RB `` undef ''
is interpreted as undefined. In the case of
.BR min " and " time
, the numerical argument is interpreted as a literal value rather than
as an ascii character.
.sp
.ne 3v
.SS Combination Modes
.TP 10m
.BR evenp " or " parity
enable
.BR parenb " and " cs7 .
.TP
.B oddp
enable
.BR parenb ", " cs7 ", and " parodd .
.TP
.BR \-parity ", " \-evenp ", or " \-oddp
disable
.BR parenb ,
and set
.BR cs8 .
.TP
.BR raw " (" \-raw " or " cooked )
enable (disable) raw input and output
(no \s-1ERASE\s+1, \s-1KILL\s+1, \s-1INTR\s+1, \s-1QUIT\s+1, \s-1SWTCH\s+1,
\s-1EOT\s+1, or output post processing).
.TP
.BR iexten " (" \-iexten )
Enable (disable) any implementation-dependent special control
characters not currently controlled by icanon, isig, ixon or ixoff. 
.TP
.BR nl " (" \-nl )
set (unset)
.BR icrnl.
In addition
.B \-nl
unsets
.BR inlcr ", " igncr.
.TP
.BR lcase " (" \-lcase )
set (unset)
.BR xcase ", " iuclc ", and " olcuc .
.TP
.BR \s-1LCASE\s+1 " (" \-\s-1LCASE\s+1 )
same as
.BR lcase " (" \-lcase ).
.TP
.BR tabs " (" \-tabs " or " tab3 )
preserve (expand to spaces) tabs when printing.
.TP
.B ek
reset \s-1ERASE\s+1 and \s-1KILL\s+1 characters back to normal
.B ^H
and
.BR ^U .
.TP
.B sane
resets all modes to some reasonable values.
.TP
.B dec
\s-1ERASE\s+1, \s-1KILL\s+1, and \s-1INTR\s+1 characters set to 
.BR ^? ,
.BR ^U , 
and 
.BR ^C ;
.BR echoe " and " echok 
set;
.B ixany 
unset.
.TP
.B term\^
set all modes suitable for the
terminal type
.IR term ,
where
.I term\^
is one of
.BR tty33 ", " tty37 ", " vt05 ", "
.BR tn300 ", " ti700 ", or " tek .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tabs(1), ioctl(2), termio(7) 
.\"	@(#)stty.1	6.3 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
'\".br
'\"Extensions by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
