'\"macro stdmacro
.TH "SYSMETER" 1
.SH NAME
sysmeter \- display system performance values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysmeter
[
.B \-s
.I samp
]
[
.B \-a
.I avg
]
[
.B \-h
.I name
]
[
.B \-d
.I win
]
[
.B \-g
.I ht
]
[
.B \-x
.I x\-cord
]
[
.B \-y
.I y-cord
]
[
.B \-r
.I row
]
[
.B \-m
]
[
.B \-i
.I bk,cbg,avg,txt,chg
]
[
.B \-v
.I value value ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sysmeter
opens a window and displays various system performance values collected from
either local machine, or
any remote machine that implements the
.I rstat 
version 3 protocol.
When
.I sysmeter
starts, it makes a connection to the
.IR rstatd (1M)
daemon on the target machine and periodically collects data from the daemon.
.PP
Various performance data can be selected for display.
Each selected performance value will be displayed within one sub-window
in either of the
two styles: bar chart or strip chart.
In both formats, the y-axis represents the value collected.  In the strip chart,
the x-axis represents the time.
.PP
The default option is to collect CPU usage data on local machine for every 2
seconds with window width equals to 120 seconds.
The options can be set either from command line or
by clicking the left or right mouse button.
.PP
The average of performance values, if selected,
are displayed as shaded areas in the strip chart format
while in the bar chart format, the values are displayed 
in the rear bars.
.PP
When resizing the window,
.I sysmeter
always re-adjusts the window size for the best possible shape to fit
all the selected values in order to prevent the distortion of the
graphics.
If the width of the window is wide enough,
.I sysmeter
will display the
hostname, sample time, averaging time and display window width in
the window title.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\f3\-s \f2samp\f1" 1i
Sets the sample time to 
.I samp
seconds.
.IP "\f3\-a \f2avg\f1" 1i
Sets the averaging time to 
.I avg
seconds.  If this option is not supplied,
.I sysmeter
will not display the averaging value.
.IP "\f3\-h \f2name\f1" 1i
Selects the host specified by
.I name
as the target machine for performance data collection.
.IP "\f3\-d \f2win\f1" 1i
Sets the window width to
.I win
seconds. This number divided by the sample time is equivalent to the number of
samples appears in one sub-window.  This option is meaningful
only with the strip chart format.
.IP "\f3\-g \f2ht\f1" 1i
Sets the sub-window height to
.I ht
pixels.
The default height is 50 pixels.
.IP "\f3\-x \f2x-cord\f1" 1i
Sets the X coordinate
of the left lower corner of the window to
.IR x-cord .
Since
.I sysmeter
always re-adjust window size and location on a bad
re-locating or resizing, a large
x coordinate close to the left end of screen
will automatically be reduced as needed.
.IP "\f3\-y \f2y-cord\f1" 1i
Sets the y coordinate
of the left lower corner of the window to
.IR y-cord .
If both X and Y coordinates are provided,
.I sysmeter
will automatically open a window without user intervention.
.IP "\f3\-r \f2row\f1" 1i
Sets the number of rows of sub-windows to be
.I row.
The default is two columns.
.IP "\f3\-m\f1" 1i
selects the bar chart format instead of the default strip chart format.
.IP "\f3\-i \f2bk,cbg,avg,txt,chg\f1" 1i
These values
specify the five colors used by the displays, separated by commas.
The values are the color map indices of the background,
chart background, averaged area, text and change-parameters colors.
The defaults are 15, 12, 1, 4, and 10, respectively.
.IP "\f3\-v \f2value\f1" 1i
Selects performance values to be displayed:
.sp
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B all
display all of the following values
.TP 10
.B cpu
percent of CPU being utilized
.TP 10
.B page
paging activity in pages per second
.TP 10
.B swap
jobs swapped per second
.TP 10
.B intr
number of device interrupts per second
.TP 10
.B disk
disk traffic in transfers per second
.TP 10
.B cntxt
number of context switches per second
.TP 10
.B load
average of number of runnable jobs over the last minute times 1024
.TP 10
.B pkts
total of input and output network packets per second
.TP 10
.B inpkts
input network packets per second
.TP 10
.B outpkts
output network packets per second
.TP 10
.B colls
collisions per second detected on the network
.TP 10
.B errs
errors per second when receiving packets
.RE
.PD
.ne 8
.PP
When
.I sysmeter
is running, you can move the mouse cursor into the window, press and hold
the right button to get the pop-up menu.
This menu has the options:
.I cpu, page, swap, intr, disk, cntxt,
.I load, pkts, inpkts, outpkts, colls, errs,
.I display-average, change-param, style, 
and
.IR exit .
The entries corresponding to each performance values specified in
.B -v
option are toggle switches.  If you move the cursor to any one
of those entries
and releases the right button,
.I sysmeter
will toggle between displaying or removing the sub-window.
If no parameters are specified when
.I sysmeter
is started, it
will display the:
.I cpu
usage by default.
The
.I display-average
and
.I style
selections are also toggle switches.
.PP
When
.I change-parameter
entry is selected, a parameter changing panel will appear
in the left lower corner of the window and the display
activity is frozen although
.I sysmeter
is still collecting data packets internally.  If the window is too narrow,
only a partial view of the panel
will show up.  You can fix this problem by
reshaping the window.
.PP
Inside the panel, there is a parameter selection location marked with three
curly arrows.  Moving the cursor to this area and click the left button,
the panel will switch among the three changeable parameters:
sample interval,
averaging period, and
window width.
.PP
After moving the cursor to the up-pointed triangle under the ruler,
pressing, holding
and moving the left button along the ruler will change the selected
parameter to the
number indicated in the small window above the ruler.  The ruler is
exponentially increased to maximum of 7200 seconds (2 hours).
.PP
Once the change is made, moving the cursor to the location marked with
.I ok
and pressing the left button will update the values.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following command will automatically display the local system
performance data on the top of the screen.
.Ex
sysmeter -x 50 -y 900 -g 50 -v all -a 120 -d 300 -s 5 -r 1
.Ee
.SH SEE ALSO
rstatd(1M), rpcinfo(1)
.SH BUGS
The maximum number allowed to be displayed on the y-axis of a
sub-window is 8192.
If a value exceeds this
limit, the display will be truncated to 8192.
