'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.tabs @(#)tabs	30.15 of 3/22/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} TABS 1 "User Environment Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} TABS 1 "User Environment Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} TABS 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} TABS "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
tabs \- set tabs on a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR tabs
[tabspec]
.RB [ \-T "type]"
.RB [ +m n]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tabs\^
sets the tab stops on the user's terminal according to the tab specification
.IR tabspec ,
after clearing any previous settings.
The user's terminal must have remotely-settable hardware tabs.
.PP
.TP 8
.I tabspec
Four types of tab specification are accepted for
.IR tabspec .
They are described below:
canned
(\f3\-\f2code\f1), repetitive (\f3\-\f2n\f1),
arbitrary (\f2n1,n2,...\f1),
and file (\f3\-\-\f2file\f1).
If no
.I tabspec\^
is given, the default value is
.BR \-8 ,
i.e.,
\s-1UNIX\s+1 system ``standard'' tabs.
The lowest column number is 1.
Note that for
.IR tabs ,
column 1 always refers to the leftmost column on a terminal,
even one whose column markers
begin at 0,
e.g., the \s-1DASI\s+1 300, \s-1DASI\s+1 300s, and \s-1DASI\s+1 450.
.PP
.TP 8
.BI \- code\^
Use one of the codes listed below to select a
\f2canned\f1 set of tabs.
The legal codes and their meanings are as follows:
.RS 8
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B \-a
1,10,16,36,72
.br
Assembler, \s-1IBM\s+1 S/370, first format
.TP
.B \-a2
1,10,16,40,72
.br
Assembler, \s-1IBM\s+1 S/370, second format
.TP
.B \-c
1,8,12,16,20,55
.br
\s-1COBOL\s+1, normal format
.TP
.B \-c2
1,6,10,14,49
.br
\s-1COBOL\s+1 compact format (columns 1-6 omitted).
Using this code, the first typed character corresponds to card column 7,
one space gets you to column 8, and a tab reaches column 12.
Files using this tab setup
should include a format specification
as follows (see \f2fspec\f1(4)):
.in +.5i
.B "<:t\-c2 \|m6 \|s66 \|d:>"
.in -.5i
.TP
.B \-c3
1,6,10,14,18,22,26,30,34,38,42,46,50,54,58,62,67
.br
\s-1COBOL\s+1 compact format (columns 1-6 omitted), with more tabs than
.B \-c2.
This is the recommended format for \s-1COBOL\s+1.
The appropriate format specification is (see \f2fspec\f1(4)):
.in +.5i
.B "<:t\-c3 \|m6 \|s66 \|d:>"
.in -.5i
.TP
.B \-f
1,7,11,15,19,23
.br
\s-1FORTRAN\s+1
.TP
.B \-p
1,5,9,13,17,21,25,29,33,37,41,45,49,53,57,61
.br
\s-1PL/I\s+1
.TP
.B \-s
1,10,55
.br
\s-1SNOBOL\s+1
.TP
.B \-u
1,12,20,44
.br
\s-1UNIVAC\s+1 1100 Assembler
.RE
.PD
.br
.ne 10
.TP 8
.BI \- n\^
A \f2repetitive\f1 specification requests tabs at columns
.RI 1+ n ,
.RI 1+2\(** n ,
etc.
Of particular importance is the value
.BR 8 :
this represents the
\s-1UNIX\s+1 system ``standard'' tab setting, and is the most likely tab setting to be found
at a terminal.
Another special case is the value
.BR 0 ,
implying no tabs at all.
.TP
.IR n1 , n2 ,...
The \f2arbitrary\f1 format permits the user to type any
chosen set of numbers, separated by commas, in ascending order.
Up to 40 numbers are allowed.
If any number (except the first one) is preceded by a plus sign, it is taken
as an increment to be added to the previous value.
Thus, the formats
\f31\f1,\f310\f1,\f320\f1,\f330\f1,
and
\f31\f1,\f310\f1,\f3+10\f1,\f3+10\f1
are considered identical.
.TP
.BI \-\- file\^
If the name of a \f2file\f1 is given,
.I tabs\^
reads the first line of the file, searching for a format specification (see
\f2fspec\f1(4)).
If it finds one there, it sets the tab stops according to it, otherwise it
sets them as
.BR \-8 .
This type of specification may be used to make sure that a tabbed file is printed
with correct tab settings, and would be used with the
.IR pr (1)
command:
.in +.5i
\f3tabs \-\-\f1 file; \f3pr\f1 file
.in -.5i
.RE
.PP
Any of the following also may be used;
if a given flag occurs more than once,
the last value given takes effect:
.PP
.TP 8
.BI \-T type\^
.I tabs\^
usually needs to know the type of terminal in order to set tabs
and always needs to know the type to set margins.
.I type\^
is a name listed in
.IR term (5).
If no
.B \-T
flag is supplied,
.I tabs\^
uses the value of the environment variable
.BR \s-1TERM\s0 .
If
.B \s-1TERM\s0
is not defined
in the
.I environment\^
(see
.IR environ (5)),
.I tabs\^
tries a sequence that will work for many terminals.
.TP
.BI +m n\^
The margin argument may be used for some terminals.
It causes
all tabs to be moved over
.I n\^
columns by making column
.I n+1\^
the left margin.
If
.B +m
is given without a value of
.IR n ,
the value assumed is
.BR 10 .
For a TermiNet, the first value in the tab list should
be
.BR 1 ,
or the margin will move even further to the right.
The normal (leftmost) margin on most terminals is
obtained by
.BR +m0 .
The margin for most terminals is reset only when the
.B +m
flag is given explicitly.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 13
.B "tabs \-a"
example using
.I \-code
(\f2canned\f1 specification) to set
tabs to the settings required by the IBM
assembler:  columns 1, 10, 16, 36, 72.
.TP
.B "tabs \-8"
example of using
.I \-n
(\f2repetitive\f1 specification), where
.I n
is
.BR 8 ,
causes tabs to be set every eighth position:
.br
1+(1*8), 1+(2*8), ... which evaluate to columns
9, 17, ...
.TP
.B "tabs 1,8,36"
example of using
.IR n1 , n2 ,...
(\f2arbitrary\f1 specification)
to set tabs at columns 1, 8, and 36.
.br
.ne 10
.TP
.B "tabs \-\-$HOME/fspec.list/att4425"
example of using
.I \-\-file
(\f2file\f1 specification) to indicate
that tabs should be set according to the first
line of
.I $HOME/fspec.list/att4425
(see \f2fspec\f1(4)).
.br
.ne 10
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PD 0
.TP "\w@\f2unknown\ tab\ code\fP\ \ \ \ @u"
.I "illegal tabs\^"
when arbitrary tabs are ordered incorrectly
.br
.TP
.I "illegal increment\^"
when a zero or missing increment is found in
an arbitrary specification
.br
.TP
.I "unknown tab code\^"
when a \f2canned\f1 code cannot be found
.br
.TP
.I "can't open\^"
if \f3\-\-\fP\f2file\fP option used, and file can't be opened
.br
.TP
.I "file indirection\^"
if \f3\-\-\fP\f2file\fP option used and the specification
in that file points to yet another file.
Indirection of this form is not permitted
.br
.PD
.SH NOTES
Hardware tabs must be enabled on the terminal device by entering the UNIX
command \f2`stty tabs'\f1;
otherwise the
.I tabs
command will appear to have no effect.
Tab and margin setting is performed via the standard output.
.PP
There is no consistency among different terminals regarding ways of
clearing tabs and setting the left margin.
.P
.I tabs\^
clears only 20 tabs (on terminals requiring a long sequence),
but is willing to set 64.
.SH WARNING
The
.I tabspec
used with the
.I tabs
command is different from the one used with the
.IR newform (1)
command.
For example,
.B "tabs \-8"
sets every eighth position;
whereas
.B "newform \-i\-8"
indicates that tabs are set every eighth position.
.SH SEE ALSO
stty(1), newform(1), pr(1), tput(1),
fspec(4),
terminfo(4),
environ(5), term(5)
.\"	@(#)tabs.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
