.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)telnet.1	6.8 (Berkeley) 9/1/89
.\"
.TH telnet 1C
.SH NAME
telnet \- user interface to the TELNET protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3telnet\f1 [\f3\-d\f1] [\f3\-n \f2tracefile\f1] [\f3\-l \f2user\f1 | \c
\f3\-a] [\f3\-e \f2escape-char\f1] [\f2host\f1 [\f2port\f1]]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I telnet
command
is used to communicate with another host using the TELNET protocol.
If
.I telnet
is invoked without the
.I host
argument, it enters command mode,
indicated by its prompt, \f3telnet>\f1.
In this mode, it accepts and executes the commands listed below.
If it is invoked with arguments, it performs an
.B open
command (see below) with those arguments.
.PP
Options:
.TP 10
\f3\-d\f1
Sets the initial value of the \f3debug\f1 toggle to \f3TRUE\f1.
.TP
\f3\-n\f2 tracefile\f1
Opens \f2tracefile\f1 for recording trace information.
See the \f3set tracefile\f1 command below.
.TP
\f3\-l\f2 user\f1
When connecting to the remote system, if the remote system
understands the ENVIRON option,
.B user
is sent to the remote system as the value for the variable USER.
This option can also be used with the
.B open
command.
.TP
\f3\-a\f1
Auto-login.
Same as specifying
.B \-l
with your user name.
This option can also be used with the
.B open
command.
.TP
\f3\-e\f2 escape-char\f1
Sets the initial
.I telnet
escape character to
.IR "escape-char" .
If
.I "escape-char"
is the null character (specified by \f3""\f1 or \f3''\f1),
there is no escape character.
.TP
\f2host\f1
Indicates the official name, an alias, or the Internet address
of a remote host.
.TP
\f2port\f1
Indicates a port number (address of an application).
If a number is
not specified, the default \f3telnet\f1 port is used.
.PP
Once a connection has been opened,
\f2telnet\f1
attempts to enable the
TELNET LINEMODE
option.
If this fails,
\f2telnet\f1
reverts to one of two input modes:
either "character at a time"
or "old line by line"
depending on what the remote system supports.
.PP
When LINEMODE is enabled, character processing is done on the
local system, under the control of the remote system.
When input
editing or character echoing is to be disabled, the remote system
relays that information.
The remote system relays
changes to any special characters that happen on the remote
system, so that they can take effect on the local system.
.PP
In "character at a time" mode, most
text typed is immediately sent to the remote host for processing.
.PP
In "old line by line" mode, all text is echoed locally,
and (normally) only completed lines are sent to the remote host.
The "local echo character" (initially \f3^E\f1) can be used
to turn off and on the local echo
(this would mostly be used to enter passwords
without the password being echoed).
.PP
If the LINEMODE option is enabled or if the
.B localchars
toggle is \f3TRUE\f1 (the default for "old line by line", see below),
the user's
.BR quit ,
.BR intr ,
and
.B flush
characters are trapped locally and sent as
TELNET
protocol sequences to the remote side.
If LINEMODE has ever been enabled, the user's
.B susp
and
.B eof
are also sent as
TELNET
protocol sequences,
and
.B quit
is sent as a TELNET ABORT instead of BREAK.
There are options (see
.B toggle
.B autoflush
and
.B toggle
.B autosynch
below)
that cause this action to flush subsequent output to the terminal
(until the remote host acknowledges the
TELNET
sequence) and flush previous terminal input
(in the case of
.B quit
and
.BR intr ).
.PP
While connected to a remote host,
\f2telnet\f1
command mode can be entered by typing the
\f2telnet\f1
"escape character" (initially \f3^]\f1).
When in command mode, the normal terminal editing conventions are available.
.PP
The following \f2telnet\f1 commands are available.
Only enough of each command to uniquely identify it needs to be typed
(this is also true for arguments to the
.BR mode ,
.BR set ,
.BR toggle ,
.BR unset ,
.BR slc ,
.BR environ ,
and
.B display
commands).
.PP
.TP 10
.B close
Close a
TELNET
session and return to command mode.
.TP
.B display \f1[\fP \f2argument...\fP \f1]\fP
Display all, or some, of the
.B set
and
.B toggle
values (see below).
.TP
.B mode \f2type\fP
.I type
is one of several options, depending on the state of the
TELNET
session.
The remote host is asked for permission to go into the requested mode.
If the remote host is capable of entering that mode, the requested
mode is entered.
.RS
.TP 10
.B character
Disable the
TELNET LINEMODE
option, or, if the remote side does not understand the
LINEMODE
option, enter "character at a time" mode.
.TP
.B line
Enable the
TELNET LINEMODE
option, or, if the remote side does not understand the
LINEMODE
option, attempt to enter "old line by line" mode.
.TP
.B isig (\-isig)
Attempt to enable (disable) the TRAPSIG mode of the LINEMODE option.
This requires that the LINEMODE option be enabled.
.TP
.B edit (\-edit)
Attempt to enable (disable) the EDIT mode of the LINEMODE option.
This requires that the LINEMODE option be enabled.
.TP
.B softtabs (\-softtabs)
Attempt to enable (disable) the SOFT_TAB mode of the LINEMODE option.
This requires that the LINEMODE option be enabled.
.TP
.B litecho (\-litecho)
Attempt to enable (disable) the LIT_ECHO mode of the LINEMODE option.
This requires that the LINEMODE option be enabled.
.TP
.B ?
Print out help information for the
.B mode
command.
.RE
.TP
\f3open\f1 \f2host\f1 [ [\f3\-l\f1 \f2user\f1 | \f3\-a\f1] [\f3\-\f1]\f2port\f1 ]
Open a connection to the named host.
If no port number
is specified,
\f2telnet\f1
attempts to contact a
TELNET
server at the default port.
The host specification can be either a hostname (see
.IR hosts (4))
or an Internet address specified in the "dot notation" (see
.IR inet (3N)).
The \f3\-l\fP option can be used to specify the user name
to be passed to the remote system via the ENVIRON option.
The \f3\-a\fP option sends your user name
to the remote system via the ENVIRON option.
When connecting to a non-standard port,
\f2telnet\f1
omits any automatic initiation of
TELNET
options.
When the port number is preceded by a minus sign,
the initial option negotiation is done.
After establishing a connection, the \f2.telnetrc\fP file in the
user's home directory is opened.
Lines beginning with a \f3#\f1 are
comment lines.
Blank lines are ignored.
Lines that begin
without whitespace are the start of a machine entry.
The
first thing on the line is the name of the machine that is
being connected to.
The rest of the line, and successive
lines that begin with whitespace, are assumed to be
.I telnet
commands and are processed as if they had been typed
in manually to the
.I telnet
command prompt.
.TP
.B quit
Close any open
TELNET
session and exit
.IR telnet .
An end of file (in command mode) also closes a session and exits.
.TP
.B send \f2arguments\fP
Send one or more special character sequences to the remote host.
The following are the arguments that can be specified
(more than one argument can be specified at a time):
.RS
.TP 10
.B abort
Send the
TELNET ABORT
(ABORT processes)
sequence.
.TP
.B ao
Send the
TELNET AO
(Abort Output) sequence, which should cause the remote system to flush
all output
.B from
the remote system
.B to
the user's terminal.
.TP
.B ayt
Send the
TELNET AYT
(Are You There)
sequence, to which the remote system may or may not choose to respond.
.TP
.B brk
Send the
TELNET BRK
(Break) sequence, which may have significance to the remote
system.
.TP
.B ec
Send the
TELNET EC
(Erase Character)
sequence, which should cause the remote system to erase the last character
entered.
.TP
.B el
Send the
TELNET EL
(Erase Line)
sequence, which should cause the remote system to erase the line currently
being entered.
.TP
.B eof
Send the
TELNET EOF
(End Of File)
sequence.
.TP
.B eor
Send the
TELNET EOR
(End of Record)
sequence.
.TP
.B escape
Send the current
.I telnet
escape character (initially \f3^]\f1).
.TP
.B ga
Send the
TELNET GA
(Go Ahead)
sequence, which likely has no significance to the remote system.
.TP
.B getstatus
If the remote side supports the
TELNET STATUS
command,
.B getstatus
sends the subnegotiation to request that the server send
its current option status.
.TP
.B ip
Send the
TELNET IP
(Interrupt Process) sequence, which should cause the remote
system to abort the currently running process.
.TP
.B nop
Send the
TELNET NOP
(No OPeration)
sequence.
.TP
.B susp
Send the
TELNET SUSP
(SUSPend process)
sequence.
.TP
.B synch
Send the
TELNET SYNCH
sequence.
This sequence causes the remote system to discard all previously typed
(but not yet read) input.
This sequence is sent as TCP urgent
data (and may not work if the remote system is a 4.2 BSD system \-\- if
it doesn't work, a lower case \f3r\f1 may be echoed on the terminal).
.TP
.B ?
Print out help information for the
.B send
command.
.RE
.TP
.B set \f2argument value\fP
.TP
.B unset \f2arguments...\fP
The
.B set
command sets any one of a number of
.I telnet
variables to a specific value or to \f3TRUE\f1.
The special value \f3off\fP turns off the function associated with
the variable, this is equivalent to using the
.B unset
command.
The
.B unset
command disables or sets to \f3FALSE\f1 any of the specified functions.
The values of variables can be interrogated with the
.B display
command.
The variables that can be set or unset, but not toggled, are
listed here.
In addition, any of the variables for the
\f3toggle\fP command can be explicitly set or unset using
the \f3set\fP and \f3unset\fP commands.
.RS
.TP 10
.B echo
The value (initially \f3^E\f1) which, when in
"line by line" mode, toggles between doing local echoing
of entered characters (for normal processing) and suppressing
echoing of entered characters (for entering, say, a password).
.TP
.B eof
If
.I telnet
is operating in
LINEMODE
or "old line by line" mode, entering this character
as the first character on a line causes this character to be
sent to the remote system.
The initial value of the eof character is taken to be the terminal's
.B eof
character.
.TP
.B erase
If
.I telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.B localchars
below),
and
if
.I telnet
is operating in "character at a time" mode, when this
character is typed, a
TELNET EC
sequence (see
.B send
.B ec
above)
is sent to the remote system.
The initial value for the erase character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B erase
character.
.TP
.B escape
The
.I telnet
escape character (initially \f3^[\f1), which causes entry
into
.I telnet
command mode (when connected to a remote system).
.TP
.B flushoutput
If
.I telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.B localchars
below)
and the
.B flushoutput
character is typed, a
TELNET AO
sequence (see
.B send
.B ao
above)
is sent to the remote host.
The initial value for the flush character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B flush
character.
.TP
.B interrupt
If
.I telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.B localchars
below)
and the
.B interrupt
character is typed, a
TELNET IP
sequence (see
.B send
.B ip
above)
is sent to the remote host.
The initial value for the interrupt character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B intr
character.
.TP
.B kill
If
.I telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.B localchars
below),
.B and
if
.I telnet
is operating in "character at a time" mode, when this
character is typed, a
TELNET EL
sequence (see
.B send
.B el
above)
is sent to the remote system.
The initial value for the kill character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B kill
character.
.TP
.B lnext
If
.I telnet
is operating in
LINEMODE
or "old line by line" mode, this character is taken to
be the terminal's
.B lnext
character.
The initial value for the lnext character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B lnext
character.
.TP
.B quit
If
.I telnet
is in
.I localchars
mode (see
.B toggle
.B localchars
below)
and the
.B quit
character is typed, a
TELNET BRK
sequence (see
.B send
.B brk
above)
is sent to the remote host.
The initial value for the quit character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B quit
character.
.TP
.B reprint
If
.I telnet
is operating in
LINEMODE
or "old line by line" mode, this character is taken to
be the terminal's
.B reprint
character.
The initial value for the reprint character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B reprint
character.
.TP
.B start
If the
TELNET TOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL
option has been enabled,
this character is taken to
be the terminal's
.B start
character.
The initial value for the kill character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B start
character.
.TP
.B stop
If the
TELNET TOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL
option has been enabled,
this character is taken to
be the terminal's
.B stop
character.
The initial value for the kill character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B stop
character.
.TP
.B susp
If
.I telnet
is in
.B localchars
mode, or
LINEMODE
is enabled, and the
.B suspend
character is typed, a
TELNET SUSP
sequence (see
.B send
.B susp
above)
is sent to the remote host.
The initial value for the suspend character is taken to be
the terminal's
.B suspend
character.
.TP
.B tracefile
The file to which the output, caused by \f3netdata\f1 or
\f3option\f1 tracing being \f3TRUE\f1, is written.
If it is set to \f3\-\f1,
tracing information is written to standard output (the default).
.TP
.B worderase
If
.I telnet
is operating in
LINEMODE
or "old line by line" mode, this character is taken to
be the terminal's
.I worderase
character.
The initial value for the worderase character is taken to be
the terminal's
.I worderase
character.
.TP
.B slc \f2state\fP
The
.B slc
command (Set Local Characters) is used to set
or change the state of the special
characters when the TELNET LINEMODE option has
been enabled.
Special characters are characters that get
mapped to TELNET commands sequences (like
.B ip
or
.BR quit )
or line editing characters (like
.B erase
and
.BR kill ).
By default, the local special characters are exported.
.RS
.TP 10
.B export
Switch to the local defaults for the special characters.
The
local default characters are those of the local terminal at
the time when
.I telnet
was started.
.TP
.B import
Switch to the remote defaults for the special characters.
The remote default characters are those of the remote system
at the time when the TELNET connection was established.
.TP
.B check
Verify the current settings for the current special characters.
The remote side is requested to send all the current special
character settings, and if there are any discrepancies with
the local side, the local side switches to the remote value.
.TP
.B ?
Print out help information for the
.B slc
command.
.RE
.TP
.B environ \f2arguments...\fP
The \f3environ\fP command is used to manipulate the
variables that can be sent through the ENVIRON
option.
The initial set of variables is taken from the user's
environment with only the \f3DISPLAY\fP and \f3PRINTER\fP variables
being exported by default.
.IP
Valid arguments for the \f3environ\fP command are:
.RS
.TP 10
.B define \f2variable value\fP
Define the variable \f2variable\fP to have a value of \f2value\f1.
Any variables defined by this command are automatically exported.
The \f2value\f1 can be enclosed in single or double quotes so
that tabs and spaces can be included.
.TP
.B undefine \f2variable\fP
Remove \f2variable\fP from the list of environment variables.
.TP
.B export \f2variable\fP
Mark the variable \f2variable\fP to be exported to the
remote side.
.TP
.B unexport \f2variable\fP
Mark the variable \f2variable\fP to not be exported unless
explicitly asked for by the remote side.
.TP
.B send \f2variable\fP
Send the variable \f2variable\fP to the
remote side.
.TP
.B list
List the current set of environment variables.
Those marked with a \f3*\f1 are sent automatically,
other variables are sent only if explicitly requested.
.TP
.B ?
Print out help information for the
.B environ
command.
.RE
.TP
.B ?
Display the legal
\f3set\f1 (\f3unset\f1)
commands.
.RE
.TP
.B toggle \f2arguments...\fP
Toggle (between
\f3TRUE\f1
and
\f3FALSE\f1)
various flags that control how
.I telnet
responds to events.
These flags can be set explicitly to \f3TRUE\f1 or \f3FALSE\f1
using the
.B set
and
.B unset
commands listed above.
More than one argument can be specified.
The state of these flags can be interrogated with the
.B display
command.
Valid arguments are:
.RS
.TP 10
.B autoflush
If
.B autoflush
and
.B localchars
are both
\f3TRUE\f1,
when the
.BR ao ,
.BR intr ,
or
.B quit
characters are recognized (and transformed into
TELNET
sequences; see
.B set
above for details),
.I telnet
refuses to display any data on the user's terminal
until the remote system acknowledges (via a
TELNET TIMING MARK
option)
that it has processed those
TELNET
sequences.
The initial value for this toggle is \f3TRUE\f1 if the terminal user had not
done an \f3stty noflsh\f1, otherwise \f3FALSE\f1 (see
.IR stty (1)).
.TP
.B autosynch
If
.B autosynch
and
.B localchars
are both
\f3TRUE\f1,
when either the
.B intr
or
.B quit
characters is typed (see
.B set
above for descriptions of the
.B intr
and
.B quit
characters), the resulting
TELNET
sequence sent is followed by the
TELNET SYNCH
sequence.
This procedure
.B should
cause the remote system to begin throwing away all previously
typed input until both of the
TELNET
sequences have been read and acted upon.
The initial value of this toggle is \f3FALSE\f1.
.TP
.B binary
Enable or disable the
TELNET BINARY
option on both input and output.
.TP
.B inbinary
Enable or disable the
TELNET BINARY
option on input.
.TP
.B outbinary
Enable or disable the
TELNET BINARY
option on output.
.TP
.B crlf
If this is \f3TRUE\f1, carriage returns are sent as <CR><LF>.
If this is \f3FALSE\f1, carriage returns are sent as <CR><NUL>.
The initial value for this toggle is \f3FALSE\f1.
.TP
.B crmod
Toggle carriage return mode.
When this mode is enabled, most carriage return characters received from
the remote host are mapped into a carriage return followed by
a linefeed.
This mode does not affect those characters typed by the user, only
those received from the remote host.
This mode is not very useful unless the remote host
only sends carriage return, but never linefeed.
The initial value for this toggle is \f3FALSE\f1.
.TP
.B debug
Toggle socket level debugging (useful only to the
.IR superuser ).
The initial value for this toggle is \f3FALSE\f1.
.TP
.B localchars
If this is
\f3TRUE\f1,
the
.BR flush ,
.BR interrupt ,
.BR quit ,
.BR erase ,
and
.B kill
characters (see
.B set
above) are recognized locally, and transformed into (hopefully) appropriate
TELNET
control sequences
(respectively
.BR ao ,
.BR ip ,
.BR brk ,
.BR ec ,
and
.BR el ;
see
.B send
above).
The initial value for this toggle is \f3TRUE\f1 in "old line by line" mode,
and \f3FALSE\f1 in "character at a time" mode.
When the
LINEMODE
option is enabled, the value of
.B localchars
is ignored and assumed to always be \f3TRUE\f1.
If
LINEMODE
has ever been enabled,
.B quit
is sent as
.BR abort ,
and
.BR eof and
.B suspend
are sent as
.BR eof and
.BR susp ,
see
.B send
above).
.TP
.B netdata
Toggle the display of all network data (in hexadecimal format).
The initial value for this toggle is \f3FALSE\f1.
.TP
.B options
Toggle the display of some internal
.I telnet
protocol processing (having to do with
TELNET
options).
The initial value for this toggle is \f3FALSE\f1.
.TP
.B prettydump
When the
.B netdata
toggle is enabled, if
.B prettydump
is enabled, the output from the
.B netdata
command is formatted in a more user readable format.
Spaces are put between each character in the output, and the
beginning of any
TELNET
escape sequence is preceded by a \f3*\f1 to aid in locating them.
.TP
.B ?
Display the legal
.B toggle
commands.
.RE
.TP
.B z
Suspend
.IR telnet .
This command only works when the user is using the
.IR csh (1).
.TP
.B ! \f1[\fP \f2command\fP \f1]\fP
Execute a single command in a subshell on the local
system.
If \f2command\fP is omitted, an interactive
subshell is invoked.
.TP
.B status
Show the current status of
.BR telnet .
This includes the peer one is connected to, as well
as the current mode.
.TP
.B ? \f1[\fP \f2command\fP \f1]\fP
Get help.
With no arguments,
.I telnet
prints a help summary.
If a command is specified,
.I telnet
prints the help information for just that command.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I telnet
uses at least the
.BR HOME ,
.BR SHELL ,
.BR USER ,
.BR DISPLAY ,
and
.B TERM
environment variables.
Other environment variables can be propagated
to the other side via the
TELNET ENVIRON
option.
.SH FILES
~/.telnetrc	user customized telnet startup values
.SH NOTES
On some remote systems, echo has to be turned off manually when in
"old line by line" mode.
.PP
In "old line by line" mode or LINEMODE the terminal's
.I eof
character is only recognized (and sent to the remote system)
when it is the first character on a line.
