'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.timex @(#)timex	30.3 of 3/22/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} TIMEX 1 "Performance Measurement Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} TIMEX 1 "Performance Measurement Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} TIMEX 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} TIMEX "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
timex \- time a command; report process data and system activity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B timex\ 
[\|options\|] command
.SH DESCRIPTION
The given
.I command\^
is executed;
the elapsed time, user time and system time
spent in execution are reported in seconds.
Optionally, process accounting data for the
.I command
and all its children can be listed or summarized,
and total system activity during the execution interval
can be reported.
.P
The output of
.I timex
is written on standard error.
.P
.IR Options\  are:
.TP .4i
.B \-p
List process accounting records for
.I command
and all its children.
Suboptions 
.B f, h, k, m, r, 
and
.B t
modify the data items reported.
The options are as follows:
.RS 10
.IP \f3\-f\f1 6
Print the
.IR fork / exec
flag and system exit status columns in the output.
.IP \f3\-h\f1 6
Instead of mean memory size,
show the fraction of total available
.SM CPU
time consumed by the process
during its execution.
This ``hog factor'' is computed as:
.sp \nPDu
.RS 10m
(total\ \s-1CPU\s+1\ time)/(elapsed\ time)
.RE
.IP \f3\-k\f1 6
Instead of memory size, show total kcore-minutes.
.IP \f3\-m\f1 6
Show mean core size (the default).
.IP \f3\-r\f1 6
Show
.SM CPU
factor (user_time/(system_time + user_time)).
.IP \f3\-t\f1 6
Show separate system and user
.SM CPU
times.
The number of blocks read or written and the number
of characters transferred are always reported.
.RE
.TP .4i
.B \-o
Report the total number of blocks read or written and
total characters transferred by 
.I command 
and all its children.
.TP .4i
.B \-s
Report total system activity (not just that due to 
.IR command )
that occurred during the execution interval of
.IR command .
All the data items listed in 
.IR sar (1)
are reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sar(1).
.SH WARNING
Process records associated with
.I command
are selected from the accounting file
.B /var/adm/pacct
by inference, since process genealogy is not available.
Background processes having the same user-id,
terminal-id, and execution time window will be spuriously included.
.br
.ne 6
.SH EXAMPLES
A simple example:
.RS
.PP
timex \-ops\ sleep 60
.RE
.PP
A terminal session of arbitrary complexity can be measured
by timing a sub-shell:
.RS
.PP
timex \-opskmt\ sh
.RS
.PP
session commands
.RE
.SM EOT
.RE
.\"	@(#)timex.1	6.1 of 5/4/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
