'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man1.topwait @(#)topwait 1.0 of 8/20/97
.TH TOPWAIT 1
.SH NAME
topwait, topfunc  \- system activity displays
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B topwait
[
.B \-b | -n
] [
.B \-d count
] [
.B \-h hostname
] [
.B \-p cpu-list
] [
.B \-s delay
]
.br
.B topfunc
[
.B \-b | -n
] [
.B \-d count
] [
.B \-h hostname
] [
.B \-p cpu-list
] [
.B \-s delay
] [
.B \-u unix
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Topwait
and
.I topfunc
are clients of
.IR rtmond (1)
which display periodically updating system activity lists.
.IR Topwait
displays a list of the top synchronization objects in use by the system.
.IR Topfunc
displays a list of the top functions being executed in the kernel.  These
programs have been modeled after the popular program
.IR top (1)
whose interface is well known.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b or \-n
Use batch (or non\-interactive mode).
.TP
.B \-d count
Update
.I count
times and then exit.
.TP
.B \-h hostname
Connect to
.IR rtmond (1)
running on
.I hostname.
Default is localhost.
.TP
.B \-p cpu\-list
Observe events occuring on cpus in
.I cpu\-list.
Default is all cpus.
(N.B.
.IR topwait
should observe events on all cpus to be totally
accurate.)
.TP
.B \-s delay
Wait
.I delay
seconds between updates.  Default is 2 seconds.
.TP
.B \-u unix
.RI [ topfunc
only] Specifies the filename of the currently running kernel for use in
resolving function symbols.  This defaults to
.BI /unix .
.SH "INTERACTIVE MODE"
.I Topwait
and
.I topfunc
have a similar set of single\-character commands to
.IR top (1).
These commands are currently recognized by both programs:
.TP
.B ^L
Redraw the screen.
.IP "\fBh\fP\ or\ \fB?\fP"
Display a summary of the commands (help screen).
.TP
.B q
Quit.
.TP
.B o
Specify sort order.
.TP
.B s
Change number of seconds to delay between updates.
.PP
These commands are recognized by \fItopwait\fI:
.TP
.B t
Display only objects of a specified type (all, sv, mutex, mrlock, sema).
.PP
These commands are recognized by \fItopfunc\fI:
.TP
.B f
Only pay attention to call\-stacks containing the specified function.
Multiple functions may be specified and the union of the selected
call\-stacks will be processed.  A function\-name of "none" will
return to the default behavior of observing all call\-stacks.
.TP
.B F
Ignore call\-stacks containing the specified function.  Multiple
functions may be specified and the union of the selected call\-stacks
will be ignored.  (This option takes precedence over the 'f' option.)
A function\-name of "none" will return to the default behavior of
not ignoring any call\-stacks.
.SH "THE DISPLAY"
The first few lines of the display monitor system\-wide statistics.
Statistics for the connection to
.IR rtmond (1)
are displayed, showing the total number of messages received, along
with a breakdown of the percentage of those messages which were
unhandled or ignored.
.SH "TOPWAIT DISPLAY"
The number of processes is the total number of blocked processes of which
.I topwait
is aware.  A breakdown of the total number of blocking processes
is displayed as the percentage of
processes which are blocking due to preemption, voluntary yielding,
waiting on syncronization objects, stopped by signal, or in an unknown
blocked state.  The total number of context switches which occurred since
the last update.  A breakdown of the total number of context switches
is displayed as the percentage of switches due to preemption, waiting
on synchronization objects, and voluntary yielding.
.I WCHAN
is the address of the object being displayed, also known as a
wait\-channel.
.I NAME
is the name of the object, which will only display if the kernel has
been configured with the
.IR ksync_named
module.
.I TYPE
is one of semaphore ("sema"), synchronization (aka.
``condition'') variable ("sv"),
mutual\-exclusion lock ("mutex"), or multi-reader lock ("mrlock").
.I LOAD
is the maximum number of processes waiting on this object
simultaneously.
.I %SWTCH
is the percentage of context switches which can be attributed to
processes waiting on this object.
.SH "TOPFUNC DISPLAY"
The number of call\-stacks is listed, along with the average and
maximum depth (the number of stack frames).
.I FUNC
is the name of the function.
.I SELF
is the percentage of profiling interrupts which occurred within the
function.
.I CHILD
is the percentage of profiling interrupts which occurred while the
function was calling another function.
.I DEPTH
is the average depth in the call\-stack that this function was called
(zero is the bottom of the stack).
.P
.I Topfunc
start\-up time is somewhat slow, because it has to read in the entire
name\-list before it can begin to process call\-stacks.  Additionally, a
symbol table must be loaded into the kernel via
.IR prfld (1)
and stack trace profiling must be enabled via
.IR prfstat (1)
before top func can be used.  Any of the profiling domains supported by
.I prfstat
may be used.
.SH FILES
.DT
/unix			default name-list file for \fBtopfunc\fB
.SH BUGS
.I Topwait
does not sort rtmon events by timestamp, therefore there might be a
loss of accuracy on a multiprocessor (since block and unblock events
may occur out\-of\-order).
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR par (1),
.IR rtmon-client (1),
.IR rtmond (1),
.IR top (1),
.IR prfld (1m),
.IR prfstat (1m)
