'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.type @(#)type      30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} type 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} type 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} type 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} type "" "" "\&"
.ds OK [\|
.ds CK \|]
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f3type\f1 - write a description of command type
.SHSYNOPSIS
\f3type\f1 name...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3type\f1 utility indicates how each argument would be interpreted if
used as a command name.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.TP 7
name
A name to be interpreted.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables affect the execution of type:
.TP 7
PATH
Determine the location of name, as described in the XBD
specification, Environment Variables.
.SHSTDOUT
The standard output of \f3type\f1 contains information about each operand in
an unspecified format. The information provided typically identifies
the operand as a shell built-in, function, alias or keyword, and where
applicable, may display the operand's pathname.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 4
0
Successful completion.
.TP 4
>0
An error occurred.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
Since \f3type\f1 must be aware of the contents of the current shell execution
environment (such as the lists of commands, functions and built-ins
processed by \f3hash\f1), it is always provided as a shell regular built-in.
If it is called in a separate utility execution environment, such as
one of the following:
.IP
.nf
nohup type writer 
find . -type f | xargs type
.fi
.PP
it might not produce accurate results.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f3sh(1), command(1).\f1
