'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.ul @(#)ul	40.9 of 4/19/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ul 1 "BSD Compatibility Package" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ul 1 "BSD Compatibility Package"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ul 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ul "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.SH NAME
\f4ul\f1 \- underline
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4ul\f1 [ \f4\-i\f1 ] [ \f4\-t\f1 \f2terminal\f1 ] [ \f2filename\f1 .\ .\ . ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\f4ul\f1
command reads the named
.IR filename s
(or the standard input if none are given)
and translates occurrences of underscores to the sequence
which indicates underlining for the terminal in use, as specified
by the environment variable
\f4TERM\f1.
\f4ul\f1
uses the appropriate
\f4/usr/share/lib/terminfo\f1
file to determine the character
sequences for underlining.
If the terminal is incapable of underlining,
but is capable of a standout mode then that is used instead.
If the terminal can overstrike, or handles underlining automatically,
\f4ul\f1
degenerates to
\f4cat\f1.
If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.P
The following options are available:
.TP 12
\f4\-t\f2 terminal\f1
Override the terminal kind specified in the environment.
If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.TP
\f4\-i\f1
Indicate underlining by a separate
line containing appropriate dashes
\f4\-\f1;
this is useful when you want to
look at the underlining which is present in an
\f4nroff\f1
output stream on a
.SM CRT\s0-terminal.
.TP 12
\f4\-b\f1
Use bold if a combination of attributes is present (for example, underlining
plus bold).  The default in this situation is to use reverse video.  The
manual pages look better with this option, so \f4man\f1(1) uses
it by default.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4cat\fP(1),
\f4man\fP(1),
\f4nroff\fP(1)
