'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.uniq @(#)uniq	41.8 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} uniq 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} uniq 1 "Directory and File Management Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} uniq 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} uniq "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4uniq\f1 \- report repeated lines in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4uniq\f1
[
\f4\-u\f1|\f4-d\f1|\f4-c\f1
] [
\f4\-f \f2fields\f1
] [
\f4\-s \f2chars\f1
] [
\f2input\f1 [ \f2output\f1 ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4uniq\fP
reads the input
file comparing adjacent lines.
In the normal case, the second and succeeding copies
of repeated lines are
removed; the remainder is written on the output file.
.IR Input " and " output
should always be different.
Note that repeated lines must be adjacent
in order to be found;
see
\f4sort\f1(1).
If the
\f4\-u\f1
flag is used,
just the lines that are not repeated
in the original file are output.
The
\f4\-d\f1
option specifies that
one copy of just the repeated lines is to
be written.
The normal mode output is the union of the
\f4\-u\f1
and
\f4\-d\f1
mode outputs.
The
\f4\-c\f1
option supersedes
\f4\-u\f1
and
\f4\-d\f1
and generates
an output report in default style
but with each line preceded by a count of the
number of times it occurred.
\f4uniq\f1 processes supplementary code set characters
according to the locale specified in the \f4LC_CTYPE\fP
environment variable [see \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\fP(5)].
.PP
The
\f4\-f\f1
and
\f4\-s\f1
options specify skipping an initial portion of each line
in the comparison:
.TP 8
\f4\-f \f2fields\^\f1
The first
.IR fields 
fields
together with any blanks preceding them are ignored for each input line.
A field is defined as a string of non-space, non-tab characters
separated by tabs and spaces from its neighbors.
.TP 8
\f4-s \f2chars\^\f1
The first
.IR chars 
characters (columns, in multibyte environments) are ignored.
Fields are skipped before characters.
.SH NOTES
The
\f4\-\f2n\f1
and
\f4\+\f2m\f1
options, although still recognized, are now obsolete and may not be
supported in future releases.  The
\f4\-\f2n\f1
option is equivalent to
\f4\-f \f2fields\^\f1
with
\f2fields\f1
set to
\f2n\f1.
The
\f4\+\f2m\f1
option is equivalent to
\f4\-s \f2chars\^\f1
with
\f2chars\f1
set to
\f2m\f1.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxdfm\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4comm\fP(1), \f4sort\fP(1)
.\"	@(#)uniq.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
