'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.units @(#)units	40.6 of 4/12/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} units 1 "User Environment Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} units 1 "User Environment Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} units 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} units "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.tr ~
.SH NAME
\f4units\f1 \- conversion program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4units\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4units\fP
converts quantities expressed
in various standard scales to
their equivalents in other scales.
It works interactively in this fashion:
.PP
.nf
.RS
\f1You have:~~\f4inch\f1
\f1You want:~~\f4cm\f1
.RS +8
\(** 2.540000e+00
\(sl 3.937008e\-01
.RE
.fi
.RE
.PP
A quantity is specified as a multiplicative combination of
units optionally preceded by a numeric multiplier.
Powers are indicated by suffixed positive integers,
division by the usual sign:
.PP
.nf
.RS
\f1You have:~~\f415 lbs force/in2\f1
\f1You want:~~\f4atm\f1
.RS +8
\(** 1.020689e+00
\(sl 9.797299e\-01
.RE
.fi
.RE
.PP
\f4units\fP
only does multiplicative scale changes;
thus it can convert Kelvin to Rankine, but not Celsius to
Fahrenheit.
Most familiar units,
abbreviations, and metric prefixes are recognized,
together with a generous leavening of exotica
and a few constants of nature including:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP "\w'water~~~~'u"
\f4pi\f1
ratio of circumference to diameter,
.TP
\f4c\f1
speed of light,
.TP
\f4e\f1
charge on an electron,
.TP
\f4g\f1
acceleration of gravity,
.TP
\f4force\f1
same as
\f4g\f1,
.TP
\f4mole\f1
Avogadro's number,
.TP
\f4water\f1
pressure head per unit height of water,
.TP
\f4au\f1
astronomical unit.
.PD
.RE
.PP
\f4Pound\f1
is not recognized as a unit of
mass;
\f4lb\f1
is.
Compound names are run together, (for example,
\f4lightyear\f1).
British units that differ from
their \s-1U\s+1\&.\s-1S\s+1\&. counterparts are prefixed thus:
\f4brgallon\f1.
For a complete list of units, type:
.PP
.RS
\f4cat /usr/share/lib/unittab\f1
.RE
.SH FILES
\f4/usr/share/lib/unittab\f1
.tr ~~
.\"	@(#)units.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
