'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)uuencode.1  6.9 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\"
.TH UUENCODE 1C
.UC 4
.SH NAME
uuencode, uudecode \- encode/decode a binary file for transmission via mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuencode
[ file ] name 
.br
.B uudecode
[ file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuencode
and
.I uudecode
are used to transmit binary files over transmission mediums
that do not support other than simple
.SM ASCII
data.
.PP
.I Uuencode
reads the named source file, \f2file\fP, (or by default, the standard input)
and writes an encoded version
to the standard output.  Normally it will be used as part of a pipeline,
or with the output redirected to a file, similar to this:
.Ex
	uuencode binarydatafile decoded_name | mail someuser
.Ee
In this case, when the file is decoded with
.I uudecode
after it is received, it will be called \f3decoded_name\fP.

The encoding uses only printing ASCII characters,
and includes the mode of the file and the operand
.I name
for use by
.IR uudecode .
.PP
.I Uudecode
transforms \f2uuencoded\fP files (or by default, the standard input),
into the original form.  The resulting file is named 
.I name 
and will have the mode of the original file
except that setuid and execute bits are not retained.
.I Uudecode
ignores any leading and trailing lines.
.PP
The encoded file is ordinary text and can be edited
by any text editor to change the mode or the name.
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C), uux(1C), mail(1), uuencode(4)
.SH BUGS
The encoded form of the file is expanded by 35%
(3 bytes become 4 plus control information).
