'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1c.uustat @(#)uustat	30.4 of 3/10/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} UUSTAT 1C "Basic Networking Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} UUSTAT 1C "Basic Networking Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} UUSTAT 1C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} UUSTAT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
uustat \- uucp status inquiry and job control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uustat
.RB [ \-a ]
.br
.B uustat
.RB [ \-m ]
.br
.B uustat
.RB [ \-p ]
.br
.B uustat
.RB [ \-q ]
.br
.B uustat
[
.BI \-k \^jobid
]
.br
.B uustat
[
.BI \-r \^jobid
]
.br
.B uustat
[
.BI \-s \^system
]
[
.BI \-u \^user
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I uustat\^
will display the status of, or cancel, previously specified
.I uucp\^
commands, or provide general status on
.I uucp\^
connections to other systems.
Only one of the following options can be specified with
.I uustat
per command execution:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B \-a\^
Output all jobs in queue.
.TP 10
.B \-m\^
Report the status of accessibility of all machines.
.TP
.B \-p\^
Execute a ``ps \-flp'' for all the process-ids that are in
the lock files.
.TP
.B \-q\^
List the jobs queued for each machine.
If a status file exists for the machine, its date, time and
status information are reported.
In addition, if a number appears in () next to the number of \f3C\f1 or \f3X\f1
files, it is the age in days of the oldest \f3C.\f1/\f3X.\f1 file for that system.
The Retry field represents the number of hours until the next possible call.
The Count is the number of failure attempts.
NOTE: for systems with a moderate number of outstanding jobs, this
could take 30 seconds or more of real-time to execute.
As an example of the output produced by the
.B \-q
option:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta .75i 1.15i 2.0i
eagle	3C	04/07-11:07	NO DEVICES AVAILABLE
.br
mh3bs3	2C	07/07-10:42	SUCCESSFUL
.fi
.RE
.sp
The above output tells how many command files are waiting for each system.
Each command file may have zero or more files to be sent (zero means to call
the system and see if work is to be done).
The date and time refer to the previous interaction
with the system followed by the status of the interaction.
.TP 10
.BI \-k jobid\^
Kill the
.I uucp\^
request whose job identification is
.IR jobid .
The killed
.I uucp\^
request must belong to the person
issuing the
.I uustat\^
command
unless one is the super-user.
.TP 10
.BI \-r jobid\^
Rejuvenate
.I jobid\^.
The files associated with
.I jobid\^
are touched so that 
their modification time is set to the current time.
This prevents the cleanup daemon
from deleting the job until the jobs modification
time reaches the limit imposed by the daemon.
.bp
.PD
.PP
Either or both of the following options can be specified with
.IR uustat :
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI \-s sys\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests for remote system \f2sys\f1.
.TP 10
.BI \-u user\^
Report the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by
.IR user .
.RE
.sp
Output for both the
.B \-s
and
.B \-u
options has the following format:
.nf
.sp
eaglen0000	4/07-11:01:03	(POLL)
eagleN1bd7	4/07-11:07	S	eagle	dan	522 /usr/dan/A
eagleC1bd8	4/07-11:07	S	eagle	dan	59 D.3b2al2ce4924
		4/07-11:07	S	eagle	dan	rmail mike
.fi
.RE
.PP
.sp
With the above two options,
the first field
is the
.I jobid
of the job.
This is followed by the date/time.
The next field is either an 'S' or 'R' depending on whether the job is to
send or request a file.
This is followed by the user-id of the user who queued the job.
The next field contains the size of the file,
or in the case of a remote execution (
.I rmail
- the command used for remote mail),
the name of the command.
When the size appears in this field,
the file name is also given.
This can either be the name given by the user or an
internal name (e.g., D.3b2alce4924)
that is created for data files associated with remote executions
.RI ( rmail
in this example).
.PP
When no options are given,
.I uustat\^
outputs the status of all
.I uucp\^
requests issued by the current user.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
/var/spool/uucp/*
spool directories
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1C).
.\"	@(#)uustat.1c	?.?
.Ee
