'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1c.uuto @(#)uuto	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} UUTO 1C "Basic Networking Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} UUTO 1C "Basic Networking Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} UUTO 1C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} UUTO "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
uuto, uupick \- public \s-1UNIX\s+1-to-\s-1UNIX\s+1 system file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuto
[ options ] source-files destination
.br
.B uupick
[
.B \-s
system ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I uuto\^
sends
.I source-files\^
to
.IR destination .
.I uuto\^
uses the
.IR uucp (1C)
facility to send files,
while it allows the local system to control the file access.
A source-file name is a path name on your machine.
Destination has the form:
.RS
system\f3!\fP\f2user\fP
.RE
.PP
where
.I system\^
is taken from a list of system names
that
.I uucp\^
knows about (see
.IR uuname ).
.I User\^
is the login name
of someone on the specified system.
.PP
Two \f2options\fP are available:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B \-p
Copy the source file into the spool directory before transmission.
.TP
.B \-m
Send mail to the sender when the copy is complete.
.PD
.PP
The files (or sub-trees if directories are specified) are sent to
.SM PUBDIR
on
.IR system ,
where
.SM PUBDIR
is a public directory defined in the
.I uucp\^
source.
By default this directory is /var/spool/uucppublic.
Specifically the files are sent to
.PP
.RS
\s-1PUBDIR\s+1/receive/\f2user\fP/\f2mysystem\f1/files.
.RE
.PP
The destined recipient is notified by
.IR mail (1)
of the arrival of files.
.PP
.I Uupick\^
accepts or rejects the files transmitted to the user.
Specifically,
.I uupick\^
searches
.SM PUBDIR
for files destined for the user.
For each entry (file or directory) found,
the following message is printed on the standard output:
.RS
\f3from \f2system\^\f3:\f1 [\^file \f2file-name\^\f1] [dir \f2dirname\^\f1] \f3?\f1
.RE
.PP
.I Uupick\^
then reads a line from the standard input to determine the
disposition of the file:
.TP 16
<new-line>
Go on to next entry.
.TP
.B d
Delete the entry.
.TP
\f3m\fP [ \f2dir\^\fP ]
Move the entry to named directory
.I dir.\^
If
.I dir\^
is not specified as a complete path name (in which $HOME is
legitimate), a destination relative to the current directory is
assumed.  If no destination is given, the default is the current
directory.
.TP
\f3a\fP [ \f2dir\^\fP ]
Same as \f3m\f1 except moving all the files sent from
.IR system .
.TP
.B  p
Print the content of the file.
.TP
.B q
Stop.
.TP
\s-1EOT\s0 (control-d)
Same as
.BR q .
.TP
.BI ! command\^
Escape to the shell to do
.IR command .
.TP
.B *
Print a command summary.
.PP
.I Uupick\^
invoked with the
.BI -s system
option will only search
the
.SM PUBDIR
for files sent from
.IR system .
.sp
.SH FILES
\s-1PUBDIR\s+1	/var/spool/uucppublic	   public directory
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1),
uucp(1C),
uustat(1C),
uux(1C),
uucleanup(1M)
.SH WARNINGS
In order to send files that begin with a dot (e.g., .profile) the files must 
by qualified with a dot. For example: .profile, .prof*, .profil?
are correct; whereas *prof*, ?profile are incorrect.
.\"	@(#)uuto.1c	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
