'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1c.uux @(#)uux	30.5 of 3/22/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} UUX 1C "Basic Networking Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} UUX 1C "Basic Networking Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} UUX 1C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} UUX "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
uux \- \s-1UNIX\s+1-to-\s-1UNIX\s+1 system command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uux
[
options
]
command-string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I uux\^
will gather zero or more files from various systems,
execute a command on a specified system
and then send standard output to a file on a specified
system.
.P
NOTE:  For security reasons, most installations
limit the list of
commands executable on behalf of an incoming request from
.IR uux ,
permitting only
the receipt of mail (see
.IR mail (1)).
(Remote execution permissions are defined
in
.BR /etc/uucp/Permissions .)
.PP
The \f2command-string\fP is made up of one or more arguments that look
like a shell command line,
except that the command and file names
may be prefixed by
.IB system-name !\f1.\fP
A null \f2system-name\fP is interpreted as the local system.
.PP
File names may be one of
.RS
.TP 5
(1)
a full path name;
.TP 5
(2)
a path name preceded by
.BI ~ xxx\^
where
.I xxx\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory;
.br
.TP 5
(3)
anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.RE
.PP
As an example, the command
.IP
uux "\^!diff usg!/usr/dan/file1 pwba!/a4/dan/file2 > !~/dan/file.diff\^"
.PP
will get the \f2file1\fP and \f2file2\fP files
from the ``usg'' and ``pwba'' machines,
execute a
.IR diff (1)
command
and put the results in \f2file.diff\fP in the 
local
PUBDIR/dan/ directory.
.PP
Any special shell characters such as \f3<>;\(bv\fP should be quoted either
by quoting the entire \f2command-string\fP, or quoting the special
characters as individual arguments.
.PP
.I uux\^
will attempt to get all files to the execution system.
For files that are output files, the file name must be escaped using
parentheses.
For example, the command
.IP
uux a!cut -f1 b!/usr/file \\(c!/usr/file\\)
.PP
gets /usr/file from system "b" and sends it to system "a",
performs a \f2cut\fP command on that file
and sends the result of the 
.I cut
command to system "c".
.PP
.I uux\^
will notify you if the requested command on the remote
system was disallowed.
This notification can be turned off by the \f3\-n\fP option.
The response comes by remote mail from the remote machine.
.PP
The following \f2options\fP are interpreted by
.IR uux :
.TP 10
.B \-
The standard input to
.I uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.TP 10
.BI \-a name
Use
.I name
as the user identification replacing the initiator user-id.
(Notification will be returned to the user.)
.TP 10
.BI \-b
Return whatever standard input was provided to the \f2uux\f1 command if the exit status is non-zero.
.TP 10
.BI \-c
Do not copy local file to the spool directory for transfer to the remote
machine (default).
.TP 10
.BI \-C
Force the copy of local files to the spool directory for transfer.
.TP
.BI \-g grade
.I Grade
is a single letter/number; lower ASCII sequence characters will cause
the job to be transmitted earlier during a particular conversation.
.TP 10
.BI \-j
Output the jobid
\s-1ASCII\s+1 string on the standard output which is the job identification.
This job identification can be used by
.I uustat\^
to obtain the status 
or terminate a job.
.TP 10
.B \-n
Do not notify the user if the command fails.
.TP 10
.B \-p
Same as \-:
The standard input to
.I uux
is made the standard input to the
.IR command-string .
.TP 10
.B \-r
Do not start the file transfer, just queue the job.
.TP
.BI \-s file
Report status of the transfer in \f2file\f1.
.TP
.BI \-x debug_level
Produce debugging output on the standard output.
The
.I debug_level
is a number between 0 and 9; higher numbers give more detailed information.
.TP 10
.B \-z
Send success notification to the user.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
/var/spool/uucp
spool directories
.TP
/etc/uucp/Permissions
remote execution permissions
.TP
/etc/uucp/\(**
uucp system data files
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/\(**
uucp administrative programs
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
cut(1),
mail(1),
uucp(1C),
uustat(1C).
.SH WARNINGS
Only the first command of a shell pipeline may
have a
.IB system-name !\f1.
All other commands are executed on the system of the first
command.
.br
The use of the shell metacharacter
.B \(**
will probably not do what you want it to do.
The shell tokens
.B <<
and
.B >>
are not implemented.
.PP
The execution of commands on remote systems takes place in an
execution directory known to the
.I uucp
system.
All files required for the execution will be put into this
directory unless they already reside on that machine.
Therefore, the simple file name (without path or machine
reference) must be unique within the
.I uux
request.
The following command will NOT work:
.PP
.RS
.nf
uux "a!diff b!/usr/dan/xyz c!/usr/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"
.fi
.RE
.br
.ne 6
.PP
but the command
.PP
.RS
.nf
uux "a!diff a!/usr/dan/xyz c!/usr/dan/xyz > !xyz.diff"
.fi
.RE
.PP
will work.
(If
.I diff
is a permitted command.)
.SH BUGS
Protected files and files that are in protected directories that are owned
by the requestor can be sent in commands using
.IR uux .
However, if the requestor is root, and the directory is not searchable
by "other", the request will fail.
.\"	@(#)
.Ee
