'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1987, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)vacation.1	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\"
.TH VACATION 1 "February 7, 1989"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
vacation \- return ``I am not here'' mail indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I "Initializing the database:"
.PP
.B vacation
.B \-i
[
.B \-r
.I interval
]
.PP
.I "Replying to mail:"
.PP
.B vacation
[
.B \-a
.I alias
]
.I userid
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vacation
automatically returns a message to anyone who
sends you mail.  Typically, this message informs the
sender that you are not available to read your mail.
.SS "Initializing the Database"
.PP
When called with the
.B \-i
flag,
.I vacation
initializes the
.IR ndbm (3B)
database files
.I .vacation.pag
and
.I .vacation.dir
in your home directory.
If a vacation database already exists,
.I vacation
will delete the old one and create a new (empty) one.
.I vacation
uses this database to
keep track of the people to whom it has sent messages and at what times
such messages were sent.
.I vacation
requires this information to implement the reply interval function
described below.
.PP
The
.B \-r
flag causes
.I vacation
to set the reply interval to
.I interval
days.
The reply interval is the time the system will wait before sending a
duplicate notification message to the same user.  For example, if the
reply interval is set to 3 days, then no matter how frequently
a given user sends you mail, he will be sent a notification message at most
once every 3 days.  This feature reduces unnecessary mail traffic for
the system and undue irritation for those who send you mail.
.PP
An interval of ``0'' means that
a reply is sent to each message, and an interval of ``infinite''
(actually, any non-numeric character) will never send more than
one reply.
.PP
The default interval is seven days.
.PP
.B Caveat:
An interval of ``0'' is quite
dangerous as it allows mailers to get into ``I am on vacation''
loops.
.SS "Replying to Mail"
.PP
When called without the
.B \-i
flag,
.I vacation
sends an automatic reply message.
.I vacation
will expect to see an incoming mail message on standard input.
Once the message has been collected,
.I vacation
will send an automatic reply to the sender of the incoming
mail message provided that all of the following are true:
.IP 1. 3
.I userid
(or an
.I alias
supplied using the
.B \-a
option) is part of either the ``To:'' or ``Cc:'' headers of the mail.
.IP 2. 3
No automatic reply has been sent to the sender within the configured
.I interval
days. (See the
.B \-i
and
.B \-r
flags above.)
.IP 3. 3
The sender of the incoming message
is not ``???-REQUEST'', ``Postmaster'', ``UUCP'', ``MAILER'',
or ``MAILER-DAEMON'' (where case doesn't matter).
.IP 4. 3
No ``Precedence: bulk'' or ``Precedence: junk'' line is included in
headers of the incoming mail message.
.PP
The automatic reply message will be read from the
.IR .vacation.msg
file in the home directory associated with
.I userid.
This file should contain the complete mail message (including headers) which
will be sent back to the sender.  If it does not include a ``Subject:'' line, 
.I vacation
will construct one using the ``Subject:'' line from the incoming message.
.PP
.I Vacation
reads the first line from the standard input for a \s-1UNIX\s0-style
``From'' line to determine the address of the sender.
.IR sendmail (1M)
includes this ``From'' line automatically.
Note that if the incoming message contains a ``Reply-To:'' message header,
.I vacation
will send its reply message to the address listed there instead of to the
address from the ``From'' line.
.SH EXAMPLE
To configure
.I vacation
so that it will automatically return a message to each person who sends you
mail, you will need to take the following steps:
.IP 1. 3
Create a
.I .vacation.msg
file in your home directory containing the message that you want
.I vacation
to return to each sender.
It should be a complete message (including headers).
If your
name was ``John Brown,'' your userid was ``john'' and your host name
was ``mymachine.company.com'',
you might create a
.I .vacation.msg
file containing:
.Ex 8
From: john@mymachine.company.com (John Brown)
Precedence: bulk

I am on vacation until Aug. 1st.  In my absence, please refer
all urgent business to Jane Smith.  Her e-mail address is
jane@hermachine.company.com.

	-- John Brown
.Ee
.IP 2. 3
Initialize the vacation database in your home directory by invoking
.I vacation
with the
.B \-i
flag
and, optionally,
the
.B \-r
flag.
.IP 3. 3
Create a
.I .forward
file in your home directory that tells
.IR sendmail (1M)
to pass incoming mail to the
.I vacation
program.  Again, if your
name was ``John Brown'' and your userid was ``john,''
your
.I .forward
file might have:
.Ex
\ejohn, "|/usr/sbin/vacation john"
.Ee
.IP "" 3
This will cause
.IR sendmail (1M)
to send one copy of the incoming message to your regular mailbox (so you
can read it when you get back) and
one copy of the message to the
.I vacation
program.  Note that the
.I vacation
program is called such that it will
reply to any messages for ``john.''
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Fatal errors, such as calling
.I vacation
with incorrect arguments, or with non-existent
.IR userid s,
are logged in the system log file, using
.IR syslog (3B).
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'~/.vacation.msg    'u
~/.vacation.dir	database file
~/.vacation.msg	message to send
~/.vacation.pag	database file
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ndbm(3B), sendmail(1M), syslog(3B).
