'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.wc @(#)wc	30.2 of 12/25/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} WC 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} WC 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} WC 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} WC "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
wc \- word, line and byte or character count
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wc
[
.B \-c|\-m
] [
.B \-lw
] [ names ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I wc\^
counts lines, words, and characters or bytes in the named files,
or in the standard input if no
.I names\^
appear.
It also keeps a total count for all named files, if more than 
one input is specified.
The
.I wc\^
utility considers a 
.I word \^
to be a non-zero length string of characters
delimited by white space.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
The 
.I wc\^
utility conforms to the XBD specification in the utility argument 
syntax guideline.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.TP
.B -c
Write to the standard output the number of bytes in each input file.
.BR
.TP
.B -l
Write to the standard output the number of newline characters 
in each input file.
.BR
.TP
.B -m
Write to the standard output the number of characters in each input file.
.BR
.TP
.B -w
Write to the standard output the number of words in each input file.
.PP
The options
.B l
,
.B w
,
and
.B c
or
.B m
may be used in any combination to specify that a subset of
lines, words, and bytes or characters are to be reported.
The default is
.BR \-lwc .
.PP
When
.I names\^
are specified on the command line,
they will be printed along with the counts.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.TP
.I file\^
A pathname of an input file. If no file operand is specified, 
the standard input will be used.
.SH STDIN
The standard input will be used only if no 
.I file \^
operands are specified. See 
.B INPUT FILES.
.SH INPUT FILES
The input files may be of any type.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables affect the execution of 
\f4wc\fP:
.TP
\f4LANG\fP
provide a default value for the internationalization variables 
that are unset or null.
If 
.I LANG\^
is unset or null the corresponding value from the implementation-specific
default locale will be used. If any of the internationalization variables 
contains an invalid setting, the utility will behave as if 
none of the variables had been defined.
.TP
\f4LC_ALL\fP
if set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the 
other internationalization variables.
.TP
\f4LC_CTYPE\fP
determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single - as opposed to multi-byte -
characters in arguments).
.TP
\f4LC_MESSAGES\fP
determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and 
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.TP
\f4NLSPATH\fP
determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.I LC_MESSAGES.\^
.
.SH STDOUT
By default, the standard output contains an entry for each input file of the form:
.PP
"%d %d %d %s\\n", 
.I <newlines>\^
,
.I <words>\^
,
.I <bytes>\^
,
.I <file>\^
.PP
If the 
.B \-m
option is specified, the number of characters replace the 
.I <bytes>\^
field in this format.
.PP
If any options are specified and the 
.B \-l 
option is not specified, the number of newline characters will not be written.
.PP
If any options are specified and the 
.B \-w 
option is not specified, the number of words will not be written.
.PP
If any options are specified and neither 
.B \-c 
nor
.B \-m
is specified,
the number of bytes or characters will not be written.
.PP
If no input 
.I file\^
operands are specified, no name will be written and no blank 
characters preceding the path name will be written.
.PP
If more than one input
.I file\^
operand is specified, an additional line will be written, of the same 
format as the other lines, except that the word 
.B total
(in the POSIX locale) will be written instead of a pathname and the total
of each column will be written as appropriate. Such an additional line, 
if any, will be written at the end of the output.
.SH STDERR
Used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH OUTPUT FILES
None.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.br
\f40\ \ \fP
successful completion
.br
\f4>0\ \fP
an error occured


.\"	@(#)wc.1	6.2 of 9/2/83
.Ee
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
