'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1.who $Revision: 1.14 $
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} who 1 "Essential Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} who 1 "Essential Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} who 1 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} who "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4who\f1 \- display who is on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4who\f1
\f1[\|\f4\-mu\f1\|] \-s \f1[\|\f4\-bHlprt\f1\|]
[ \f2file\f1 ]
.PP
\f4who\f1
\f1[\|\f4\-mTu\f1\|] \f1[\|\f4\-abdHlprt\f1\|]
[ \f2file\f1 ]
.PP
\f4who\^\f1
\|\f4\-qn \f2x\f1 [ \f2file\f1 ]
.PP
\f4who am i\f1
.PP
\f4who am I\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4who\fP
can list the user's name, terminal line, login time,
elapsed time since activity occurred on the line,
and the process ID of the command interpreter (shell)
for each current UNIX system user.
It
examines the
\f4/var/adm/utmpx\f1
file to obtain its information.
If \f2file\fP is given, that file (which
must be in \f4utmpx\fP(4) format) is examined.
Usually, \f2file\fP will be
\f4/var/adm/wtmp\f1,
which contains a history of all the logins since the file
was last created.
.PP
Note that 
\f4who\f1
shows only users of ttys and it does not report any logged in 
users who are simply running X applications from their desktop 
menus.
.SH OPERANDS
\f4who\f1
with the
\f4am i\f1
or
\f4am I\f1
operands identifies the invoking user.
.SH OPTIONS
With options,
\f4who\fP
can list
logins, logoffs, reboots, and changes to the system clock, as well 
as other
processes spawned by the \f4init\fP process.
These options are:
.TP 6
\f4\-u\f1
This option lists only those users who are currently
logged in.
The
.I name
is the user's login name.
The
\f2line\fP
is the name of the line as found in the directory
\f4/dev\f1.
The
.I time
is the time that the user logged in.
The
.I idle
column contains the number of hours and minutes since activity last occurred on
that particular line (roughly, the last time something was written on that line).
A
dot
\f1(\f4\^.\^\f1)
indicates that the terminal has seen activity in the last minute
and is therefore ``current.''
If more than twenty-four hours have elapsed or
the line has not been used since boot time,
the entry is marked
\f4old\f1.
This field is useful when trying to determine
whether a person is working at the terminal or not.
The
.I pid
is the process ID of the user's shell.
The
.I comment
is the comment field associated with this line as found in
\f4/etc/inittab\f1
[see
\f4inittab\fP(4)].
This can contain information about where the terminal is located,
the telephone number of the dataset, type of terminal if hard-wired, and so on.
.TP 6
\f4\-T\f1
This option is the same as the
\f4\-u\f1
option, except that the
.I state
of the terminal line is printed.
The
.I state
describes whether someone else can write to that terminal.
A
\f4+\f1
appears if the terminal
is writable by anyone;
a
\f4\-\f1
appears
if it is not.
\f4root\f1
can write to all lines having a
\f4+\f1
or a
\f4\-\f1
in the
.I state
field.
If a bad line is encountered, a
\f4?\f1
is printed.
.TP 6
\f4\-l\f1
This option lists only those lines on which the system is waiting
for someone to login.
The
.I name
field is
\f4LOGIN\f1
in such cases.
Other fields are the same as for user entries except that the
.I state
field does not exist.
.TP 6
\f4\-m\f1
This option outputs only information about the current terminal.
.TP 6
\f4\-H\f1
This option will print column headings above the regular output.
.TP 6
\f4\-q\f1
This is a quick
\f4who\fP,
displaying only the names and the number of users currently logged on.
When this option is used, all other options are ignored.
.TP 6
\f4\-p\f1
This option lists any other process which is currently active and has
been previously spawned by
\f4init\fP.
The
.I name
field is
the name of the program executed by
\f4init\fP
as found in
\f4/etc/inittab\f1.
The
.IR state ,
\f4line\fP,
and
.I idle
fields have no meaning.
The
.I comment
field shows
the
\f4id\fP
field of the line from
\f4/etc/inittab\f1
that spawned this process.
See
\f4inittab\fP(4).
.TP 6
\f4\-d\f1
This option displays all processes
that have expired and not been respawned by 
\f4init\fP.
The
\f4exit\fP
field appears for dead processes and contains the termination and exit
values [as returned by
\f4wait\fP(2)],
of the dead process.
This can be useful in determining why a process
terminated.
.TP 6
\f4\-b\f1
This option indicates the time and date of the last reboot.
.TP 6
\f4\-r\f1
This option indicates the current
.I run-level
of the
\f4init\fP
process.
In addition,
it produces the
current state, the number of previous times the system had been in the
current state, and the previous state
under the
.IR idle ,
.IR pid ,
and
.I comment
headings, respectively.
.TP 6
\f4\-t\f1
This option indicates the last
change to the system clock (via the
\f4date\fP
command) by
\f4root\f1.
See
\f4su\fP(1M).
.TP 6
\f4\-a\f1
This option processes
\f4/var/adm/utmpx\f1
or the named
.I file
with all options turned on.
.TP 6
\f4\-s\f1
This option is the default and lists only the
.IR name ,
\f4line\fP,
and
.I time
fields.
.TP 6
\f4\-n \f2x\f1
This option takes a numeric argument, \f2x\f1, which specifies
the number of users to display per line.
\f2x\f1 must be at least \f41\f1.
The \-n option must be used with \-q.
.PP
Note to privileged users:
after a shutdown to the single-user state,
\f4who\f1
returns a prompt;
the reason is that since
\f4/var/adm/utmpx\f1
is updated at login time and
there is no login in single-user state,
\f4who\f1
cannot report accurately on this state.
\f4who am i\f1, however,
returns the correct information.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables affect the execution of 
\f4who\fP:
.TP
\f4LANG\fP
provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or null.
If 
.I LANG\^
is unset or null the corresponding value from the implementation-specific
default locale will be used. If any of the internationalization variables 
contains an invalid setting, the utility will behave as if 
none of the variables had been defined.
.TP
\f4LC_ALL\fP
if set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the 
other internationalization variables.
.TP
\f4LC_CTYPE\fP
determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single - as opposed to multi-byte -
characters in arguments).
.TP
\f4LC_MESSAGES\fP
determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.TP
\f4NLSPATH\fP
determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.I LC_MESSAGES.\^
.SH STDOUT
The general format for output is:
.PP
.RS
\f2name\f4 \|[\^\f2state\f4\^] \|\f2line\f4 \|\f2time\f4 \|[\f2idle\f4] \|[\f2pid\f4] \|[\^\f2comment\f4\^] \|[\^\f2exit\f4\^]\f1
.RE
.PP
The
.IR name ,
.IR line ,
and
.I time
information is produced by all options except
\f4\-q\f1;
the
.I state
information is produced only by
\f4\-T\f1;
the
.I idle
and
.I pid
information is produced only by
\f4\-u\f1,
\f4\-l\f1,
and
\f4\-T\f1;
and
the
.I comment
and
\f4exit\fP
information is produced only by
\f4\-a\f1.
The information produced for
\f4\-p\f1,
\f4\-d\f1,
and
\f4\-r\f1
is explained during the discussion of each option.
.PP
The following format is used for the
.B \-T
option:
.PP
.RS
"%s %c %s %s\\n", 
.I <name>,
.I <terminal state>,
.I <terminal name>,
.I <time of login>
.RE
.PP
where
.I <terminal state>\^
is one of the following characters:
.TP
+
the terminal allows write access to other users
.TP
-
the terminal denies write access to other users
.TP
?
the terminal write-access state cannot be determined
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.br
\f40\ \ \fP
successful completion
.br
\f4>0\ \fP
an error occurred
.SH NOTES
\f4w\f1(1) and \f4who\f1(1) can report different 
idle times for the same line.  \f4w\f1 
will report the time elapsed since input occurred, while \f4who\f1 
will report the time elapsed since output occurred (roughly speaking).
If there is a job running that produces output, the idle times will differ 
between the two programs:
.PP
\fr
babylon: who -Hu
\fr
NAME       LINE         TIME          IDLE    PID  COMMENTS
root       ttyd1        Jul  6 10:37   .     1955  alt console
\fr
babylon: w
\fr
User     tty from        login@  idle   JCPU   PCPU  what
root     d1             10:37am  5:54     23     23  tail -f SYSLOG
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/var/adm/wtmp
.TP
\f4/etc/inittab\f1
.TP
\f4/var/adm/utmpx
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxcore.abi\f1
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxsgicore\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1 (5).]
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4date\fP(1),
\f4login\fP(1),
\f4mesg\fP(1),
\f4su\fP(1M),
\f4init\fP(1M), \f4inittab\fP(4), \f4utmpx\fP(4),
\f4wait\fP(2)
.\"	$Revision: 1.14 $
.Ee
