.TH XDIFF 1L
.SH NAME
xdiff \- X11/Motif based file comparator and merge tool.
.br
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdiff
[-Dwib] [-N stdin name] path1 path2
.SH OVERVIEW
.B xdiff
is a graphical browser for viewing the differences between two files
and can be used to produce a merged version.  The text of the two files
are presented side by side with their differences highlighted for easy
identification.

The two paths supplied on the command line identify the files to be
compared.  One of the two paths must be a file.  The other may be one
of three things.  Another file, a directory, in which case the last
component of the file name will be appended to the directory to form
the other file name, or a \'-', in which case the input for that path
will be read from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS FOR XDIFF
.IP \-N stdin name
When input is read from stdin this option specifies the string to use
in place of it's name in the title bar.  If not specified the string
"<stdin>" is used.
.IP \-D
If there are no differences then exit quietly with exit code of 0.
.IP \-w
Passed on to diff(1). Ignore whitespace when comparing the two files.
.IP \-b
Passed on to diff(1). Ignore trailing blanks when comparing the two files.
.IP \-i
Passed on to diff(1). Ignore case when comparing the two files.
.IP \-
Not really an option. Use stdin as one of the files. See above.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The xdiff window is divided into 4 main areas. These are, the menu bar
at the top of the window, a message line just below it, an overview
area on the right side of the window and a text area occupying the
remainder. The text area is further divided into two text windows, one
for each file, a vertical slider between them and a horizontal slider
underneath each text area.
.SH TEXT WINDOWS
.B xdiff
uses diff(1) to determine the differences between the two files.  The
text of the two files is displayed in two scrollable windows in the
main area of the window. Differences are highlighted using different
colours for the foreground and background. These may be specified by
the user as described below in the section on user preferences.  A
vertical slider separates the two text areas and controls the vertical
positioning of both text areas simultaneously.  The size of the thumb
of the slider is scalled to represent the amount of text visible in the
windows.

.B xdiff
can be used to merge the differences from the two files into third. To
select the desired differences the user interacts as follows. To write
this merged version see the section of the File menu.

With the pointer in the left window and pressing the left button the
cursor line moves to the line under the pointer. If this line is in a
difference region then the the left region is selected. Similarly the
differences in the right window may be selected by pressing the left
button on the difference in the right window.

Pressing the middle button with the pointer in either the left or right
windows will move the cursor line to the line under the pointer. If
this is within a difference region then a selection of only the cursor
line is made.  This allows a finer level of selection of which text
will appear in the merged output.

Holding the Shift key will cause the region or line, as described above,
to have it's selection removed.

Pressing the right button while in either the left or right windows
will post a popup menu.  This popup's methods are to move to other
difference regions. Accelerators may be attached to provide quick
navigation using the keyboard.
.IP "Next Difference"
.br
Go to the first line of the next difference region.
.IP "Previous Difference"
Go to the last line of the previous difference region.
.IP "Next Unselected"
Go the the first line of the next difference region that is still
unselected.
.IP "Previous Unselected"
Go the the last line of the previous difference region that is still
unselected.
.SH OVERVIEW WINDOW
The overview window appears at the right side of the xdiff window. It's
purpose is to show graphically the number, location and size of the
differences between the two files.  This display consists of two
columns representing the files and their differences and an area in
between where lines indicate where the differences occur with respect
to the other file.  A small arrow is shown in each column and
represents the position of the cursor line in that file.  The relative
lengths of the files are shown by comparing the lengths of the two
columns.

Pressing any button while the pointer is in the overview area will move
the cursor line to the position in the file indicated by the pointer
position.  If the pointer is in the left half of the overview window
the line will be determined from the left file and from the right file
if the pointer is in the right half.  The cursor line will then be
displayed in the center of the text windows.
.SH MENU BAR
.B xdiff
has a menu bar consisting of six buttons. These are listed below and
described in more detail in the sections that follow.
.IP File
.br
Contains output commands and exit.
.IP Edit
.br
Contains searching and cursor movement functions.
.IP Global
.br
Contains functions that apply to the entire file.
.IP Region
Contains functions that apply to a single difference region.
.IP Line
.br
Contains functions that apply to a single difference line.
.IP Help
.br
Interface to access the online help.
.SH File Menu
This menu is used to save the merged text to a file and to exit xdiff.
Before a save can be performed all differenced must have a selection.
If not, an error message is displayed in the message line and the
cursor line is moved to the first line which does not have a
selection.  After a save to a file, a message will be displayed in the
message line to indicate the status of the save. If the resource
confirmWrite is set to True then a confirmation dialog is presented
before a save allowing the user to confirm the write or cancel the
operation. The default for the confirmWrite resource is True.

If you attempt to save to the left file or the right file when that
file has been read from the standard input xdiff will write the output
to standard output.  This allows xdiff to be used in a filter chain
like all well behaved Unix utilities.
.IP "Save as Right"
Short cut to save the merged text to the file on the right.
.IP "Save as Left"
Short cut to save the merged text to the file on the left.
.IP "Save As ..."
Save As will present the user with the Motif file selection box. If the
user presses the OK button then the merged text will be written to the
specified file subject to the confirmation described above.

When writing the regions of common text using Save As the text from the
left file is used. This may yeild surprises if the -w -b -i flags are
used. Although the text is indicated as being the same it may not be.
.IP Exit
.br
Leave xdiff unconditionally.
.SH Edit Menu
This menu contains functions for search and cursor movement.
.IP "Search ..."
Search will present a dialog box containing an editable text feild and
a Search and Cancel button.  The user may enter a regular expression in
the text feild to specify the search pattern.  Pressing Enter or
pressing the Search button will initiate the search on all text in both
files. A small diamond will appear in the overview area for each line
that matches the search pattern. To move to a match you may click on
one of the diamonds in the overview area or use the Search Next or
Search Previous buttons from this menu.
.IP "Search Next"
Move the cursor from its current position to the next match from either
file.  If there are no more matches then it the cursor is positioned at
the bottom.
.IP "Search Previous"
Move the cursor from its current position to the previous match from
either file.  If there are no more matches then it the cursor is
positioned at the top.
.IP "Scroll Down"
The cursor line is moved down half the number of visible lines and then
that line is centered in the window if possible. The functionality of
this and the following buttons in this menu are really not required
since it can all be done using the scroll bars.  They are included so
that accelerators may be added. In this way the operation of xdiff can
be completely controlled from the keyboard.
.IP "Scroll Up"
The cursor line is moved up half the number of visible lines and then
that line is centered in the window if possible.
.IP "Cursor Down"
The cursor line is moved to the next line. That line is the centered in
the window if possible. This gives the effect of the text scrolling
under a stationary cursor.
.IP "Cursor Up"
The cursor line moves as above but in the other direction.
.IP "Cursor Top"
The cursor line is set to the first line. That  line is displayed at the
top of the window.
.IP "Cursor Bottom"
The cursor line is set to the last line. That line is displayed at the
bottom of the window of possible.
.IP "Redo Diff"
The files are diff'd again.
Any selection information is lost.
The intention is that you can hand-edit one of the files and then re-diff.
This can provide a major improvement in ease of merging files.
.SH Global Menu
This menu contains operation that affect the entire file.
.IP "Select Left"
Selects all the difference regions from the left file.
.IP "Select Right"
Selects all the difference regions from the right file.
.IP "Select Neither"
All regions from both files are unselected. Only common text will be
included in the merged output.
.IP "Unselect"
Removes all selections that have been made.
.IP "Tabs 4"
Specifies that tabs should be expanded to 4 spaces.
.IP "Tabs 8"
Specifies that tabs should be expanded to 8 spaces.
.IP "Line Numbers"
Each line of text will be prefixed with the line number from its file.
Regions of absent text will not have a line number.
.SH Region Menu
The functions of the Region Menu use the location of the cursor line to
specify the region for which the function is to be performed.  These
functions will only work when the cursor line is on a difference.
.IP "Select Right"
The entire difference region from the right file is selected.
.IP "Select Left"
The entire difference region from the left file is selected.
.IP "Select Neither"
Both the left and the right regions are unselected. Neither region will
be included in the merged output.
.IP "Unselect"
Any previous selection made to this region will be removed.
.IP "Split Right"
In the case when the text has changed between the left and the right
files and it is desired to have both differences appear in the merged
output split right can be used to create two differences so that each
can then be selected individually.  Split right will list the text from
the right file first and then the text from the left file. Any
selection that has been previously made to the region will be applied
to both regions after the split.
.IP "Split Left"
Same as Split Right except that the text from the left file is listed
first.
.SH Line Menu
This menu's functions use the location of the cursor line to specify
the line for which the operation is to be performed.  These functions
will only work when the cursor line is on a difference.
.IP "Select Right"
Only the cursor line is selected from the right file.
.IP "Select Left"
Only the cursor line is selected from the left file.
.IP "Select Neither"
The cursor line for both sides are unselected and so neither line will
be included in the merged output.
.IP "Unselect"
Any previous selection made to this line will be removed.
.SH Help Menu
.IP "On Context"
To obtain help for any widget in the main window. Selecting the help on
context button will cause the cursor to change to a question mark.  Move
this cursor to any of the widgets and click. A help window will appear
to describe the widget and it interactions.
.IP "About xdiff"
Provides general information about xdiff.
.SH USER PREFERENCES
The differences obtained from diff(1) can be clasified into 4 types.
.IP Common
.br
Common Text which is present in both files.
.IP Only
.br
Only text is text that appears only in one file.
.IP Absent
.br
When text is missing from a file the void is called Absent. This always
accompanies Only text.
.IP Changed
.br
Text which has been changed between the files is called Changed Text.
.SH
Unselected text will use the types above. Once a selection has been
made the following types will apply.
.IP Selected
When the user has selected one of the two sides of a difference then
that will be selected the other side  will become deleted.
.IP Deleted
This text is not desired in the merged output.
.SH
These names are used to form X11 resources names to determine the users
preferences.

Each of these categories may have different colours for foreground and
background. They may also have a different font.  Any unspecified fonts
will default to the font for fontCommon.  To specify the foreground
resources name prefix the name with \'fgc' the background is specified
by prefixing the name with \'bgc'. To specify the font, prefix with
\'font'.  From the app-defaults file the Common text is specified
with.

.nf
*fontCommon:    *-clean-medium-r-normal-*-14-*
*fgcCommon:     black
*bgcCommon:     grey
.fi
The cursor colour may be specified using the resource 'cursorColour'
This colour is used to outline the current line in the text windows
and the outline of the trianglular indicator in the overview area.
Lines that match the pattern specified in the search window may be
outlined in a different colour to indicate the match.  The resource
used to specify this is 'matchColour' if not specified the cursorColour
is used.

.SH FILES
.B xdiff
uses a temporary file when reading from stdin. This file will be
located in $TMPDIR if it is defined otherwise it will be located in
/usr/tmp.  The file name will be of the form xdiffXXXXXX.

Application defaults for xdiff can be found in
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Xdiff.
.SH NOTES
The default accelerator keys used by xdiff have changed from the
original gdiff accelerators to be consistent with those used in other
SGI desktop applications.
.SH SEE ALSO
gdiff(1), diff(1).
.SH AUTHOR
Rudy Wortel <rudy@alias.com>.
.br
Inspired by gdiff written by Andrew C. Myers.
