'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man1.ypcat @(#)ypcat	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH YPCAT 1 
.SH NAME
ypcat \- print values in NIS databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypcat
[
.B \-k
] 
[
.B \-t
] 
[
.B \-d
.I domainname 
]
.I  mname
.br
.B ypcat
.B \-x
.IX  "ypcat command"  ""  "\fLypcat\fP \(em print values from NIS database"
.IX  "print values from NIS database"  ""  "print values from NIS database \(em \fLypcat\fP"
.IX  "NIS"  "print values from database"  ""  "print values from database \(em \fLypcat\fP"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ypcat
prints out values in the network information service (NIS)
map specified by 
.IR mname ,
which may be either a
.I mapname
or a map 
.IR nickname .
.I ypcat
uses the current NIS server to obtain the information.
.LP
For example, to display the network-wide password database, 
.IR passwd.byname ,
(with the nickname
.IR passwd ),
type:
.Ex
ypcat passwd
.Ee
.LP
Refer to \f2ypfiles\f1(4) and \f2nis\f1(1M) for an overview of NIS.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \f3\-k\f1
Display the keys for those maps in which the values are null
or the key is not part of the value.
(None of the maps derived from files that have an ASCII version in
.I /etc
fall into this class.)
.IP \f3\-t\f1
Inhibit translation of 
.I mname 
to 
.I mapname.
For example,
.I "ypcat \-t passwd"
will fail because there is no map named
.IR passwd ,
whereas
.I "ypcat passwd"
will be translated to
.IR "ypcat passwd.byname" .
.IP \f3\-d\f1
Specify a domain other that the default domain.
The default domain is returned by
.IR domainname.
.IP \f3\-x\f1
Display the map nickname table.  
This lists the nicknames (\0\f2mnames\f1\0)
the command knows of, and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each
nickname.
Use \f2ypwhich \-m\fP to list all the map names.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
domainname(1), ypmatch(1), ypwhich(1), ypfiles(4), nis(1M)
