'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man1.ypchpass @(#)ypchpass	30.3 of 2/1/86
.nr X
.TH YPCHPASS 1
.SH NAME
ypchpass \- change selected NIS passwd fields
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypchpass
.RB [ \-f
.IR fullname ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR home ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR shell ]
.RI [ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ypchpass
changes selected
.IR passwd (4)
fields associated with the user
.I name
(your own name by default)
in the network information service (NIS) 
.I passwd
databases.
The 
.I passwd 
fields that can be modified with
.I ypchpass
may have different contents from those for the same user in the local
.I /etc/passwd
file.
.PP
If invoked without options,
.I ypchpass
invokes the editor named by the environment variable
.BR \s-1EDITOR\s0 ,
or
.IR vi (1)
if
.B \s-1EDITOR\s0
is null or unset, to edit a template of selected
.I passwd
fields.
After the user has edited this template and changed or added appropriate
field contents,
.I ypchpass
checks the updated contents.
If they are well-formed, it updates the NIS databases.
Otherwise it prompts the user to re-edit the template.
.PP
If invoked with options,
.I ypchpass
updates the NIS databases based on the options' arguments and does not
interactively acquire new field contents using an editor.
.TP 16
\f3\-f\fP \f2fullname\fP
Change the user's real name field to contain
.IR fullname .
A useful convention, observed by
.IR finger (1),
divides this field into four comma-separated parts: the user's real name,
office, extension, and home phone.
.TP 16
\f3\-h\fP \f2home\fP
Change the initial working directory field to
.IR home .
.TP 16
\f3\-s\fP \f2shell\fP
Change the shell field to
.IR shell .
.PP
Only the owner of
.I name
may change its
.I passwd
fields.
.LP
Use
.IR yppasswd (1)
to change a user's password.
.SH "RESTRICTIONS"
.I Ypchpass
only works with SGI NIS masters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypfiles(4), rpc.passwd(1M)
