'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man1.ypmatch @(#)ypmatch	30.3 of 2/1/86
.nr X
.TH YPMATCH 1
.SH NAME
ypmatch \- print key values in NIS map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypmatch 
[ \f3\-d \f2domain\f1 ]
[ \f3\-k\f1 ]
[ \f3\-t\f1 ]
.I key 
\&.\|.\|.
.I mname 
.br
.B ypmatch 
.B \-x
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\f2ypmatch\f1 prints the values associated with one or more keys from the 
network information service (NIS) map (database) specified by a
.IR mname ,
which may be either a
.I mapname
or an map 
.IR nickname .
.LP
Multiple keys can be specified; the same map will be searched for 
all.  The keys must be exact values insofar as capitalization and length
are concerned.  No pattern matching is available.  
If a key is not matched, a diagnostic message is produced.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \f3\-d\f1
Specify a domain other that the default domain.
The NIS server for the specified domain must be able to receive broadcasts
from your machine (i.e., the server must be on the same (sub)network).
.IP \f3\-k\f1
Before printing the value corresponding to a key, print the key itself, 
followed by a
colon (`:').  This is useful only if the keys are not duplicated in the
values, or you've specified so many keys that the output could
be confusing.
.IP \f3\-t\f1
Inhibit translation of nickname to mapname.
For example,
.RS
.Ex
ypmatch \-t zippy passwd
.Ee
will fail because there is no map named
.IR passwd ,
while
.Ex
ypmatch zippy passwd
.Ee
will succeed because it is equivalent to
.Ex
ypmatch zippy passwd.byname
.Ee
.RE
.IP \f3\-x\f1
Display the map nickname table.
This lists the nicknames
.RI ( mnames )
the command knows of, and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each
nickname.
Use \f2ypwhich \-m\fP to list all the map names.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ypcat(1), ypwhich(1), ypfiles(4)
