'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man1.yppasswd @(#)yppasswd	30.3 of 2/1/86
.nr X
.TH YPPASSWD 1
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- change NIS login password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yppasswd
.RI [ name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "yppasswd command"  ""  "\fLyppasswd\fP \(em change login password in NIS"
.IX  "change login password in NIS"  ""  "change login password in NIS \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "NIS"  "change login password in"  ""  "change login password in \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "password"  "change in NIS"  ""  "change in NIS \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.IX  "login password"  "change in NIS"  ""  "change in NIS \(em \fLyppasswd\fP"
.I yppasswd
changes (or installs) a password associated with the user
.I name
(your own name by default)
in the network information service (NIS)
.I passwd
databases.  The NIS password may be different
from the one for the same user in the local
.I /etc/passwd
file.
.LP
.I yppasswd
prompts for the old NIS password and then for the new one.
The caller must supply both.
The new password must be typed twice, to forestall mistakes.
.LP
New passwords must be at least four characters long if they use
a sufficiently rich alphabet and at least six characters long
if monocase.  These rules are relaxed if you are insistent enough.
.LP
Only the owner of the name or the super-user may change a password;
in either case you must prove you know the old password.
.LP
Use
.IR ypchpass (1)
to change other 
.IR passwd (4)
fields.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
passwd(1), ypchpass(1), ypfiles(4), rpc.passwd(1M)
.SH BUGS
The update protocol passes all the information to the server in
one RPC call, without ever looking at it.  Thus if you
type in your old password incorrectly, you will not be notified until
after you have entered your new password.
