'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man1.ypwhich @(#)ypwhich	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH YPWHICH 1
.SH NAME
ypwhich \- print the NIS server or map master hostname 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ypwhich
[
.B \-d
.I domain 
] 
[
.B \-V1
|
.B \-V2
] 
[ 
.I hostname 
]
.br
.B ypwhich
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-d
.I domain 
] 
.B \-m
[
.I mname
]
.br
.B "ypwhich \-x"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ypwhich command"  ""  "\fLypwhich\fP \(em who is NIS server"
.I ypwhich
tells which network information service (NIS) server 
supplies NIS services to an NIS client,
or which server is the master for a map.
If invoked without arguments, it prints the NIS server
for the local machine.  If
.I hostname
is specified, that machine is queried
to find out which NIS server it is using.
.LP
Refer to \f2ypfiles\f1(4) and \f2nis\f1(1M) for an overview of NIS.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\f3\-d \f2domain\f1" .8i
Use
.I domain
instead of the default domain.
.IP "\f3\-m \f2mname\f1"
Find the master NIS server for a map.  No
.I hostname
can be specified with
.BR \-m .
.I mname
can be a mapname, or a nickname for a map.  
If 
.I mname
is not specified, 
.I ypwhich 
lists the names of all the maps and their master server. 
.TP
.B \-t
Inhibit nickname translation.
This option is useful if there is a mapname identical to a nickname,
which is not true of any IRIX-supplied map.
.TP
.B \-x
Display the map nickname table.
This lists the nicknames 
(\f2mnames\f1) 
the command knows of, and indicates the
.I mapname
associated with each
nickname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rpcinfo(1M), nis(1M), ypset(1M), ypfiles(4)
'\".SH ORIGIN
'\"Sun Microsystems
