'\"macro stdmacro
.TH "Frame Scheduler" 3
.SH NAME
\f4frs_getattr\fP, \f4frs_pthread_getattr\fP \- get frame scheduler attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/frs.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <pthread.h>\f1
.fi
.P
\f4int frs_getattr (frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_frame\fP, pid_t \f2pid\fP, frs_attr_t \f2attribute\fP, void* \f2param\fP);\f1
.P
\f4int frs_pthread_getattr (frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_frame\fP, pthread_t \f2pthread\fP, frs_attr_t \f2attribute\fP, void* \f2param\fP);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4frs_getattr\fP and \f4frs_pthread_getattr\fP get the specified \f2attribute\fP
of frame scheduler \f2frs\fP.
.P
The \f2attribute\fP may be one of the following:
.TP 5
\f4FRS_ATTR_RECOVERY\fP
When recovery attributes are selected, the recovery policy for \f2frs\fP
may be retrieved and \f2param\fP is a pointer to a user allocated frs_recv_info_t
structure.
.TP 5
\f4FRS_ATTR_SIGNALS\fP
When signal attributes are selected, the frame scheduler signals may
retrieved and \f2param\fP is a pointer to a user allocated frs_signal_info_t
structure.
.P
The \f2pid\fP and \f2pthread\fP fields should be set to NULL, since they
are present for future enhancements and are not currently used.
.P
The frame scheduler get attribute operations will fail if one or more of
the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
Invalid frame scheduler object or minor frame.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EPERM]
No permission to execute frame scheduler functions.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENODEV]
The REACT/Pro Frame Scheduler Subsystem has not been installed.
.TP 15
.SM
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f4frs_getattr\fP and \f4frs_pthread_getattr\fP
will return 0.
Otherwise, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4frs_setattr\f1(3),
\f4frs_pthread_setattr\f1(3)
.P
The REACT Real-Time Programmer's Guide (insight(1)) covers Frame Scheduler
principles and usage in detail.
.P
Frame scheduler programming examples (if installed) can be found in the
following directory: /usr/share/src/react/examples.
