'\"macro stdmacro
.TH "Frame Scheduler" 3
.SH NAME
\f4frs_readqueue\f1, \f4frs_pthread_readqueue\f1 \- retrieve the list of queued processes/threads on a frame scheduler minor frame.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/frs.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <pthread.h>\f1
.P
\f4int frs_readqueue(frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_frame\fP, pid_t *\f2list\fP);\f1
.P
\f4int frs_pthread_readqueue(frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_frame\fP, pthread_t *\f2list\fP);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4frs_readqueue\fP retrieves the \f2list\fP of processes queued on the
\f2minor_frame\fP of \f2frs\fP.
.P
\f4frs_pthread_readqueue\fP retrieves the \f2list\fP of pthreads queued on the
\f2minor_frame\fP of \f2frs\fP.
.P
\f2list\fP is a pointer to a user allocated buffer, used for storing the
retrieved list of pid_t or pthread_t types.
.P
The frame scheduler read queue operations will fail if one or more of
the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
Invalid frame scheduler object or minor frame.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EPERM]
No permission to execute frame scheduler functions.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENODEV]
The REACT/Pro Frame Scheduler Subsystem has not been installed.
.TP 15
.SM
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f4frs_pthread_readqueue\fP and \f4frs_readqueue\fP
will return the number of threads/processes read.
Otherwise, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4frs_getqueuelen\f1(3),
\f4frs_getattr\f1(3),
\f4frs_pthread_getattr\f1(3)
.P
The REACT Real-Time Programmer's Guide (insight(1)) covers Frame Scheduler
principles and usage in detail.
.P
Frame scheduler programming examples (if installed) can be found in the
following directory: /usr/share/src/react/examples.
