'\"macro stdmacro
.TH "Frame Scheduler" 3
.SH NAME
\f4frs_pinsert\f1, \f4frs_pthread_insert\f1 \- insert a process/thread in a frame scheduler minor frame queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/frs.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <pthread.h>\f1
.P
\f4int frs_pinsert(frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_frame\fP, pid_t \f2target_pid\fP, int \f2discipline\fP, pid_t \f2base_pid\fP);\f1
.P
\f4int frs_pthread_insert(frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_index\fP, pthread_t \f2target_pthread\fP, int \f2discipline\fP, pthread_t \f2base_pthread\fP);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4frs_pinsert\fP inserts the \f2target_pid\fP process after the specified
\f2base_pid\fP process in the \f2minor_frame\fP queue of \f2frs\fP.
.P
\f4frs_pthread_insert\fP inserts the \f2target_pthread\fP after the specified
\f2base_pthread\fP in the \f2minor_frame\fP queue of \f2frs\fP.
.P
The frame scheduler queue insertion operations will fail if one or more of
the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
Invalid frame scheduler object.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EPERM]
No permission to execute frame scheduler functions.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The \f2target_pthread\fP is not system scope.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENODEV]
The REACT/Pro Frame Scheduler Subsystem has not been installed.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOPROC]
The specified base thread/process in not queued in the minor frame.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENOPROC]
The specified target thread/process does not exist.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f4frs_pinsert\fP and \f4frs_pthread_insert\fP
will return 0.
Otherwise, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4frs_enqueue\f1(3),
\f4frs_pthread_enqueue\f1(3),
\f4frs_premove\f1(3),
\f4frs_pthread_premove\f1(3)
.P
The REACT Real-Time Programmer's Guide (insight(1)) covers Frame Scheduler
principles and usage in detail.
.P
Frame scheduler programming examples (if installed) can be found in the
following directory: /usr/share/src/react/examples.
