'\"macro stdmacro
.TH "Frame Scheduler" 3
.SH NAME
\f4frs_setattr\fP, \f4frs_pthread_setattr\fP \- set frame scheduler attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <sys/frs.h>\f1
.br
\f4#include <pthread.h>\f1
.P
\f4int frs_setattr(frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_frame\fP, pid_t \f2pid\fP, frs_attr_t \f2attribute\fP, void* \f2param\fP);\f1
.P
\f4int frs_pthread_setattr(frs_t* \f2frs\fP, int \f2minor_frame\fP, pthread_t \f2pthread\fP, frs_attr_t \f2attribute\fP, void* \f2param\fP);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4frs_setattr\fP and \f4frs_pthread_setattr\fP set the specified \f2attribute\fP
of frame scheduler \f2frs\fP.
.P
The \f2attribute\fP may be one of the following:
.TP 5
\f4FRS_ATTR_RECOVERY\fP
When recovery attributes are selected, a recovery policy for \f2frs\fP
may be defined and \f2param\fP is a pointer to a user allocated frs_recv_info_t
structure.
.TP 5
\f4FRS_ATTR_SIGNALS\fP
When signal attributes are selected, the frame scheduler signals may
be redefined and \f2param\fP is a pointer to a user allocated frs_signal_info_t
structure.  The redefinable frame scheduler signals are as follows:
.P
.in +1i
sig_underrun
Notify FRS controller of underrun conditions: SIGUSR1
.sp
sig_overrun
Notify FRS controller of overrun conditions: SIGUSR2
.sp
sig_dequeue
Notify an activity thread/process that is has been removed from a
minor frame: 0 (disabled)
.sp
sig_unframesched
Notify an activity thread/process that is has been removed from all minor
frames and is no longer been scheduled by the frame scheduler: SIGRTMIN
.P
The \f2pid\fP and \f2pthread\fP fields should be set to NULL, since they
are present for future enhancements and are not currently used.
.P
The frame scheduler set attribute operations will fail if one or more of
the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
Invalid frame scheduler object or minor frame.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVALSTATE]
The frame scheduler has already been started.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EPERM]
No permission to execute frame scheduler functions.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[ENODEV]
The REACT/Pro Frame Scheduler Subsystem has not been installed.
.TP 15
.SM
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f4frs_setattr\fP and \f4frs_pthread_setattr\fP
will return 0.
Otherwise, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4frs_start\f1(3),
\f4frs_getattr\f1(3),
\f4frs_pthread_getattr\f1(3)
.P
The REACT Real-Time Programmer's Guide (insight(1)) covers Frame Scheduler
principles and usage in detail.
.P
Frame scheduler programming examples (if installed) can be found in the
following directory: /usr/share/src/react/examples.
