'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3w.getwc @(#)getwc	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} getwc 3W "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} getwc 3W ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} getwc 3W "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} getwc "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} getwc 3w "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4getwc, getwchar, fgetwc\fP  \- get \f4wchar_t\fP character or word from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <widec.h>
.sp .5
int getwc(FILE \(**\f2stream\fP);
.sp .5
int getwchar(void);
.sp .5
int fgetwc(FILE \(**\f2stream\fP);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION (International Functions)
\f4getwc\fP transforms the next \s-1EUC\s+1 character from
the named input stream into a \f4wchar_t\fP character, and returns it.
It also increments the file pointer, if defined, by one
\s-1EUC\s+1 character in the stream.
\f4getwchar\f1 is defined as \f4getwc(stdin)\f1.
\f4getwc\f1 and \f4getwchar\f1 are macros.
.P
\f4fgetwc\f1 
behaves like \f4getwc\f1, but is a function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4fclose\fP(3S),
\f4ferror\fP(3S),
\f4fopen\fP(3S),
\f4scanf\fP(3S),
\f4stdio\fP(3S),
\f4getws\fP(3W),
\f4putwc\fP(3W),
\f4scanf\fP(3W),
\f4widec\fP(3W).
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
These functions return the constant \f4EOF\f1 at the
end-of-file, or upon an error and set the \f4EOF\fP or error indicator
of a stream, respectively.
If the error is an illegal sequence, \f4errno\fP is set to \f4EILSEQ\f1.
.SH NOTES 
If the value returned by \f4getwc\f1, \f4getwchar\f1, or
\f4fgetwc\f1 is compared with the integer constant \f4EOF\f1
after being stored in a \f4wchar_t\fP variable,
the comparison may not
succeed unless \f4EOF\f1 is cast to type \f4wchar_t\fP.
