'\"macro stdmacro
.TH BREPORT 1
.SH NAME
breport \- branch coverage tool reporting program to report the result of
a particular test run
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B breport
[
.B \-l
] [
.B \-test-map 
.I map_file_name
] [
.I log_file_name
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B breport
joins the map file with a particular log file in order to get a report
of the test run that created the particular log file. Both map file
and log file must originate from the same version of instrumented source
code.
\f4btell\fP(1) is a more flexible program that performs the same
basic function as this - it should be used instead.
.LP
If the map file name differs from the default \fBbtool_map\fR, it must
be passed into \fBbreport\fR as an argument. If no log file is specified
breport reads from standard input.
.LP
The btool map file is created during the instrumentation of the source
code by \fBbtool\fR.  It may be modified, provided branch numbers are
still ascending.
The log file is usually written by btool_writelog()
during a test run.
.LP
The resulting report is patterned after the output of the UNIX C
compiler. The output format is of the following form:
.RS
if, for, while, do-while, ? statements:
.RS
\fIfilename\fR, line \fIxx\fR: if was taken TRUE \fIx\fR, FALSE
\fIx\fR times.
.br
If there is more than one instance of if, for, while, do while, or ?
on one line this is indicated by the number of the instance in
parenthesis after the statement identifier.
.RE
case statements:
.RS
\fIfilename\fR, line \fIxx\fR: case was taken \fIx\fR times.
.br
If there is more than one case statement on one line this is indicated
by the number of the instance in parenthesis after "case".
.RE
functions called:
.RS
\fIfilename\fR, line \fIxx\fR: \fIfunction_name\fP was called \fIxx\fR times.
.RE
.RE
.LP
Example of usage:
.RS
host-1% breport test3_log
.br
"example1.c", line 9: while was taken TRUE 2, FALSE 1 times.
.br
"example1.c", line 10: if was taken TRUE 1, FALSE 1 times.
.br
"example1.c", line 10: if(2) was taken TRUE 0, FALSE 1 times.
.br
"example1.c", line 14: case was taken 3 times.
.br
...
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-l
Causes \fBbreport\fR to print the absolute path names instead of
path names relative to the master directory.
.TP
.BI \-test-map " map_file_name"
\fBbreport\fR will use \fImap_file_name\fR instead of the default
\fIbtool_map\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bmerge (1),
.BR bsummary (1),
.BR brestore (1),
.BR btell (1),
.BR btool (1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.RS
"breport: Unknown argument \fI-x\fR."
.br
"breport: Can't open map file \fIfilename\fR."
.br
"breport: Can't open log file \fIfilename\fR."
.br
"breport: File mismatch between map and log file."
.br 
"breport: Format error in \fIfilename\fR."
.br
"breport: chdir error: \fIdirectory\fR."
.br
"breport: Directory too long \fIdirectory\fR."
.br
"breport: getwd error: \fIdirectory\fR."
.br
"breport: Syntax error in mapfile \fImapfile\fR."
.br
"breport: Syntax error in logfile \fIlogfile\fR."
.br
"breport: breport takes only one file as argument."
