.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} availmon 5 "" "\&"
.TH availmon 5
.SH NAME
availmon \- overview of system availability monitoring facilities
.SH DESCRIPTION
The availability monitor (\f2availmon\f1) is a set of programs that
are integrated with SGI Embedded Support Partner (a.k.a ESP; see \f2esp\f1(5) 
for more
details) to 
collectively monitor and report the availability of a system and
the diagnosis of system crashes.
For unexpected reboots, availmon identifies the cause of
the reboot
by gathering information from diagnostic programs such as
\f2icrash\f1(1M), which includes results from the FRU analyzer
when available, and
syslog (see \f2syslog\f1(3C)), and system configuration 
information from \f2configmon\f1(1M), \f2versions\f1(1M), \f2hinv\f1(1M) 
and \f2gfxinfo\f1(1G).
.P
Availmon can send availability and diagnostic information
to various locations, depending on configuration; it can provide
local system availability statistics and reboot history reporting.
.P
All availmon capabilities are configurable from SGI ESP
User Interface.  Availmon, by default
will not automatically send availmon reports on reboot.  In all cases, 
the \f3Automatic e-mail distribution\f1 flag must be enabled for availmon
to send reports. 
.P
Availmon reporting centers around events.  Any system reboot is an
availmon event, whether a controlled shutdown or an "unscheduled" reboot,
such as a power interruption or a "crash".  An event record contains the
time at which the system was previously booted, which starts the event
period, the time the event occurred, which ends the period of "uptime",
the reason for the event, and the time that the system was rebooted.  If
the system stopped as a result of a hang, the exact instant at which it
stopped is not easily known; this time is obtained from SGI ESP Event Monitor
(see \f2eventmond\f1(1M) for more details) if \f3Start Uptime Daemon\f1
flag is configured.
.P
Events are grouped as either "Service Action" events, or "Unscheduled"
events.  Service Action events are controlled shutdowns,
initiated by operators through \f2shutdown\f1(1M), \f2halt\f1(1M)
and \f2init\f1(1M)).  For such controlled shutdowns,
a (configurable) prompt is given to
identify the reason for the shutdown.
Unscheduled events include
system panics,
and system interrupts (power failures, power cycles, system
resets etc.).
Panics are identified as either due to hardware or due to software
or due to unknown reasons.  This distinction is based strictly
on results of the FRU analyzer, if present.
.P
Availmon generates three types of reports: availability, diagnosis and pager.
Availability
reports consist of the system serial number, full hostname/internet
address, the previous system start time, the time of the event,
the reason for the event (the event code), uptime,
start time (following the reboot), and a summary of the reason for
the event where relevant.
.P
Diagnosis reports include all data from an availability report, and 
additionally may contain the icrash analysis report, FRU
analyzer result, important syslog messages, and system hardware/software
configuration and version information.  Important syslog messages include
error messages and all messages logged by sysctlrd and syslogd, since the
last reboot.  Duplicated messages are eliminated even if not consecutive;
the first such message is retained with its time stamp, and the number
of duplicated messages and the last time stamp are appended.
System software version information is limited to version output
for the operating system and installed patches.
.P
Pager reports are intended for "chatty pagers", and include
only the system hostname, a brief description of the reason
for the event, and the summary, if present.
.P
Availability information for the local system
is always permanently stored in SGI ESP database with
the help of \f2esplogger\f1(1).
Files in /var/adm/avail are maintained by availmon and should not be
deleted, modified, or moved.  
.SH CONFIGURATION
Once availmon is installed, "registration" is required before
availmon reports are automatically distributed, and if desired, 
other options may also be configured.  Registration of a system can 
normally be accomplished simply by enabling the flag
\f3Automatic e-mail distribution\f1 from SGI ESP
User Interface (\f2Setup->Availability Monitoring->Configuration\f1). 
The default distribution of email reports is to send a diagnosis report
to \f3availmon@csd.sgi.com\f1, which enters the report into the SGI Availmon
Database.
.P
There are several other configuration options that can prove useful.
One is to configure sending availmon reports from one or more systems
to a standard system administrator email alias.  This provides real-time
notification of system activity.  Another similar option is to configure
availmon pager reports for real-time notification to "chatty" pagers.
Or, availmon diagnostic reports may be sent to a local support office,
or to a system administrator for detailed evaluation.
.P
Availmon can also generate periodic status reports that indicate
that a system is still running and "registered" to send email reports.
This is controlled by the \f3Number of days between status updates\f1 
configuration value,
which defaults to \f360\f1 days.  Such reports are sent by the 
eventmond, so they are sent only if
the \f3Start Uptime Daemon\f1 configuration flag is \f3Yes\f1.
.P
Even where sending of availmon reports is not enabled, 
local system availability data is always maintained, and 
\f2System Information->Availability\f1 option can be choosen from SGI
ESP User Interface to produce statistical or event
detail reports for the local system.  
.SH REPORT VIEWING
The \f2System Information->Availability\f1 option of User Interface
reviews saved availability report
information and provides statistical and event history
reports.  By default, it processes the availability
data on the local system.
It can also process aggregate site data;
that is, an accumulation of availmon data from
different systems.  Please refer to SGI ESP User 
Guide on how to setup your system to collect availability data from different
systems.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
/var/adm/avail/.save/lasttick
uptime in seconds since Jan 1, 1970 (written by eventmond)
.TP
/var/adm/crash/*
location temporary availmon files:
availreport.*, diagreport.*, pagerreport.*,
.TP
/etc/init.d/availmon
\f2init\f1 script that logs start/stop and initiates notification
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
esplogger(1),
Mail(1),
amparse(1M),
amreceive(1M),
amsyslog(1M),
amtime1970(1M),
configmon(1M),
eventmond(1M),
halt(1M),
hinv(1M),
icrash(1M),
init(1M),
shutdown(1M),
versions(1M),
syslogd(1M),
syslog(3C),
esp(5).
.SH REFERENCES
SGI Embedded Support Partner User Guide.
