.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)dump.5	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/18/85
.\"
.TH dump 5  "June 18, 1985"
.SH NAME
dump, dumpdates \- incremental dump format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/types.h>\f1
\f3#include <protocols/dumprestore.h>\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tapes used by
.I dump
and
.IR restore (1M)
contain:
.IP ""
.nf
a header record
two groups of bit map records
a group of records describing directories
a group of records describing files
.fi
.PP
The format of the header record and of the first
record of each description as given in the
include file
.I <protocols/dumprestore.h>
is:
.Ex
#define TP_BSIZE                1024
#define NTREC          10
#define LBLSIZE        16
#define NAMELEN        64

#define TS_TAPE        1
#define TS_INODE       2
#define TS_BITS        3
#define TS_ADDR        4
#define TS_END         5
#define TS_CLRI        6
#define MAGIC           (int) 60011
#define CHECKSUM                 (int) 84446

struct spcl {
        int             c_type;
        time_t          c_date;
        time_t          c_ddate;
        int             c_volume;
        daddr_t         c_tapea;
        ino_t           c_inumber;
        int             c_magic;
        int             c_checksum;
        struct bsd_dinode        c_dinode;
        int             c_count;
        char            c_addr[TP_BSIZE/2];
        char            c_label[LBLSIZE];
        long            c_level;
        char            c_filesys[NAMELEN];
        char            c_dev[NAMELEN];
        long            c_flags;
} spcl;

struct idates {
        char            id_name[255];
        char            id_incno;
        time_t          id_ddate;
};

#define DUMPOUTFMT "%-16s %c %s"
#define DUMPINFMT  "%[^ ] %c %[^\en]\en"
.Ee
.PP
TP_BSIZE is the size of file blocks on the
dump tapes.
NTREC is the default number of 1024 byte records in a physical
tape block (blocking factor).
.PP
The
TS_ entries are used in the
.I c_type
field to indicate what sort of header
this is.
The types and their meanings are as follows:
.TP 13
TS_TAPE
Tape volume label
.PD 0
.TP
TS_INODE
A file or directory follows.
The
.I c_dinode
field is a copy of the disk inode and contains
bits indicating the type of the file.
.TP
TS_BITS
A bit map follows.
This bit map has a one bit
for each inode that was dumped.
.TP
TS_ADDR
A subrecord of a file description.
See
.I c_addr
below.
.TP
TS_END
End of tape record.
.TP
TS_CLRI
A bit map follows.
This bit map contains a zero bit for
all inodes that were empty on the filesystem when dumped.
.TP
MAGIC
All header records have this number in
.I c_magic.
.TP
CHECKSUM
Header records checksum to this value.
.PD
.PP
The fields of the header structure are as follows:
.TP 13
c_type
The type of the header.
.PD 0
.TP
c_date
The date the dump was taken.
.TP
c_ddate
The date the filesystem was dumped from.
.TP
c_volume
The current volume number of the dump.
.TP
c_tapea
The current number of this (1024-byte) record.
.TP
c_inumber
The number of the inode being dumped if this
is of type TS_INODE.
.TP
c_magic
This contains the value MAGIC
above, truncated as needed.
.TP
c_checksum
This contains whatever value is needed to
make the record sum to CHECKSUM.
.TP
c_dinode
This is a copy of the inode as it appears on the
filesystem.
Extent File System (see
.IR fs (4))
disk inodes differ from the Berkeley Fast File System inode format.
Dump converts EFS disk inodes to Berkeley's format, before dumping them on
tape.
.TP
c_count
The count of characters in
.I c_addr.
.TP
c_addr
An array of characters describing the blocks of the
dumped file.
A character is zero if the block associated with that character was not
present on the filesystem, otherwise the character is non-zero.
If the block was not present on the filesystem, no block was dumped;
the block will be restored as a hole in the file.
If there is not sufficient space in this record to describe
all of the blocks in a file, TS_ADDR
records will be scattered through the file, each one
picking up where the last left off.
.TP
c_label
Dump label.
.TP
c_level
Level of this dump.
See
.IR dump (1M).
.TP
c_filesys
Name of the dumpped filesystem.
.TP
c_dev
Name of the dump device.
.TP
c_host
Name of the dumpped host.
.TP
c_flags
Additional information.
.PD
.PP
Each volume except the last ends with a tapemark (read as an end
of file).
The last volume ends with a TS_END
record and then the tapemark.
.PP
The structure
.I idates
describes an entry in the file
.I /etc/dumpdates
where dump history is kept.
The fields of the structure are:
.TP \w'TS_INODE\ 'u
id_name
The dumped filesystem is
.RI `/dev/ id_nam'.
.PD 0
.TP
id_incno
The level number of the dump tape;
see
.IR dump (1M).
.TP
id_ddate
The date of the incremental dump in system format
see
.IR types (5).
.PD
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/dumpdates
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dump(1M),
restore(1M),
fs(4),
types(5)
