'\"!tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH replication 5
.SH NAME
replication \- memory replication
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes the memory replication system available
in Origin Systems. 
.SS Kernel Text Replication
The code for Irix is replicated during the booting procedure, according
to the ratio specified by the tunable \fBnuma_kernel_replication_ratio\fP
in /var/sysgen/mtune/numa.
There's always a copy on the \fImaster\fP node, and for a ratio \fBn\fP, 
copies are made on every \fBn\fP of the other nodes. 0 means no copies. The default
value is 1, which causes copies of the kernel text to be made on every node.

.SS User read-only memory replication
.PP
The kernel automatically produces replicas of read-only memory according to 
a \fIdynamic coverage radius algorithm\fP. Every memory object has an associated
\fIcoverage radius\fP that defines a neighborhood of nodes that are considered
to be \fIclose\fP to a physical page associated with the memory object. 
During the page fault handling procedure, Irix first looks for a page 
containing the needed data in the memory object; if such a page is not found,
the data is read from the backing device. Otherwise, if such page exists, 
the fault handler uses the \fIcoverage radius\fP to decide if a replica is
needed. If the distance between the page home node and the faulting node
is less than the coverage radius, the same page is used; else, if
the distance is greater than the coverage radius, a replica is made and
used. 

.PP
Replication happens for read-only pages only. If a read-only page becomes
writable, Irix shoots down all the replicas.
.PP
This kind of replication can be enabled or disabled using the tunable
\fBnuma_page_replication_enable\fP.
.PP
Replication can also be controlled
in order to avoid excessive use of resources. Control can be enabled or
disabled using \fBnuma_repl_control_enabled\fP. 
.PP
There are two kinds of \fIReplication Control\fB
.TP
*
\fBTraffic Control\fP. When traffic across the links needed to do the copy
are being over-utilized, replication is not done. The tunable
\fBnuma_repl_traffic_highmark_percentage\fP defines the point at
which a link is considered over-utilized. This control is currently
experimental an is disabled for production systems.
.TP
*
\fBnuma_repl_mem_lowmark\fP. Replication is not done if the amount of
physical memory falls below a threshold, defined by 
\fBnuma_repl_mem_lowmark\fP, and expressed in terms of \fInumber of pages\fP.

.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
numa(5),
migration(5),
mtune(4),
/var/sysgen/mtune/numa,
refcnt(5),
mmci(5),
nstats(1),
sn(1).

