#
# ng1_diagcmds - diagnostic functions specific to NEWPORT graphics
#
# First column is the name
# Second column is the type:
#   STR for string
#   CMD for command
#   INT for integer constant
# Third column is value:
#   CMD value is the name of the function to call
#   STR value is the quoted string
#   INT value is the integer
# 
# Columns must be separated by exactly one TAB!
ng1_setboard	CMD	ng1setboard	Set the current graphics board 
ng1_probe	CMD	ng1probeall	Probe for NG1 graphics
ng1_reset	CMD	rex3init	Basic initialization of the Rex chip
ng1_planes	CMD	ng1planes	Select bitplanes 
ng1_drawdepth	CMD	ng1drawdepth	Select drawn depth
ng1_dblsrc	CMD	ng1dblsrc	Select double source
ng1_yflip	CMD	ng1yflip	Select yflip
ng1_rwpacked	CMD	ng1rwpacked	Select rwpacked
ng1_ystride	CMD	ng1ystride	Select ystride
ng1_hostdepth	CMD	ng1hostdepth	Change hostdepth
ng1_rwdouble	CMD	ng1rwdouble	Select rwdouble
ng1_swapendian	CMD	ng1swapendian	Select swapendian
ng1_compare	CMD	ng1compare	Select compare
ng1_rgbmode	CMD	ng1rgbmode	Use RGB mode
ng1_cmode	CMD	ng1cmode	Use color index mode
ng1_dither	CMD	ng1dither	Change dither
ng1_fastclear	CMD	ng1fastclear	Use fastclear
ng1_blend	CMD	ng1blend	Use blend 
ng1_sfactor	CMD	ng1sfactor	Use sfactor 
ng1_dfactor	CMD	ng1dfactor	Use dfactor
ng1_backblend	CMD	ng1backblend	Use backblend
ng1_prefetch	CMD	ng1prefetch	Use prefetch 
ng1_logicop	CMD	ng1logicop	Set the logicop 
ng1_lslength	CMD	ng1lslength	Set lslength 
ng1_lspattern	CMD	ng1lspattern	Set lspattern
ng1_zpattern	CMD	ng1zpattern	Set zpattern 
ng1_color	CMD	ng1color	Set color index 
ng1_colorback	CMD	ng1colorback	Set color background 
ng1_rgbcolor	CMD	ng1rgbcolor	Set RGB color 
ng1_slope	CMD	ng1slope	Set color slope 
ng1_hostrw	CMD	ng1hostrw	Set hostrw value
ng1_writemask	CMD	ng1writemask	Set the writemask 
ng1_setsmask	CMD	ng1setsmask	Set the smask
ng1_drawcid	CMD	ng1drawcid	Use draw cid plane
ng1_setvisual	CMD	ng1setvisual	Set a visual
ng1_fbdepth	CMD	ng1fbdepth	Set the Frame Buffer Depth 
ng1_buswidth	CMD	ng1buswidth	Set the Bus Width
ng1_xywin	CMD	ng1xywinorg	Set xy origin 
ng1_delay	CMD	ng1delay	Sets a delay of 1/100 of a sec.
ng1_point	CMD	ng1point	Draw a point 
ng1_line	CMD	ng1line	Draw a line 
ng1_linesd	CMD	ng1linesd	Draw a single dash line 
ng1_linedd	CMD	ng1linedd	Draw a double dash line 
ng1_block	CMD	ng1block	Draw a block
ng1_blockimg	CMD	ng1blockimg	Draw a image block 
ng1_blockstip	CMD	ng1blockstip	Draw a stipple block
ng1_blockopstip	CMD	ng1blockopstip	Draw an opaque stipple block
ng1_blockystride	CMD	ng1blockystride	Draw a block with YSTRIDE
ng1_readblock	CMD	ng1readblock	Read the pixels from a block.
ng1_span	CMD	ng1span	Draw a span 
ng1_spanstip	CMD	ng1spanstip	Draw a stippled span
ng1_spanopstip	CMD	ng1spanopstip	Draw a opaque stippled span
ng1_scrtoscr	CMD	ng1scrtoscr	Screen to Screen copy
ng1_rrex	CMD	ng1rrex	Read REX register
ng1_wrex	CMD	ng1wrex	Write REX register
ng1_rexregs	CMD	test_rex3	REX register r/w test
ng1_vram	CMD	ng1test_vram	Test VRAM
ng1_cid	CMD	ng1cid	CID/PUP DRAM 
ng1_patterns	CMD	ng1patterns	Test rex with patterns
ng1_bars	CMD	ng1bars	Display color bars 
ng1_regdump	CMD	ng1regdump	Rex3 register dump
ng1_wbt445	CMD	ng1wbt445	Write Bt445 register
ng1_rbt445	CMD	ng1rbt445	Read Bt445 register
ng1_bt445test	CMD	ng1bt445test	Test Bt445 register
ng1_wcmap	CMD	ng1wcmap	Write Cmap register
ng1_rcmap	CMD	ng1rcmap	Read Cmap register 
ng1_cmaptest	CMD	ng1cmaptest	Test Cmap register 
ng1_wxmap9	CMD	ng1wxmap9	Write Xmap9 register
ng1_rxmap9	CMD	ng1rxmap9	Read Xmap9 register 
ng1_xmap9test	CMD	ng1xmap9test	Test Xmap9 register 
ng1_wvc2	CMD	ng1wvc2	Write Vc2 register 
ng1_rvc2	CMD	ng1rvc2	Read Vc2 register 
ng1_vc2test	CMD	ng1vc2test	Test Vc2 register 
ng1_vc2cursor	CMD	ng1vc2cursor	Set Vc2 cursor 
ng1_vc2cursormode	CMD	ng1vc2cursormode	Set Vc2 cursor type
ng1_dmatest	CMD	ng1dmatest	DMA test (Write & Read)
ng1_displayfb	CMD	ng1displayfb	Display Frame Buffer Depth.
