This README contains a brief description of each of the example REACT/Pro
programs located in this directory.

complete
========

Three synchronized frame schedulers, using the cctimer as the interrupt
source.

dintr
=====

A single frame scheduler using a device driver for its interrupt source.

driver
======

A pseudo-driver that uses the frame scheduler device driver interface.

ext_intr
========

Three synchronized frame schedulers, using external interrupts as the
interrupt source.

insert
======

A single frame scheduler, demonstrating how to insert and remove sprocs
on/from minor frame queues.

memlock
=======

An example that takes care of locking memory down and skips the first minor
frame to account for initial cold caches.

mprogs
======

A frame scheduler setup with independent processes

multi
=====

Three synchronized frame schedulers, scheduling multiple sprocs, using
the cctimer as the interrupt source.

multi_pt
========

Three synchronized frame schedulers, scheduling multiple pthreads, using
the cctimer as the interrupt source.

multimprogs
===========

Three synchronous frame schedulers running independent procs.

cpu_intr
========

A single frame scheduler, using the cputimer as the interrupt source.
This example also demonstrates the use of frs_destroy().

recovery
========

Three synchronized frame schedulers, illustrating the usage of automatic
overrun and underrun error recovery.

simple
======

A simple example of a single frame scheduler, scheduling multiple sprocs,
using the cctimer as its interrupt source.

simple_pt
=========

A simple example of a single frame scheduler, scheduling multiple pthreads,
using the cctimer as its interrupt source.

sixtyhz
=======

A simple example of a single frame scheduler, running one process at 60Hz,
using either the cctimer or the cputimer as the interrupt source.

stop_resume
===========

Three synchronized frame schedulers, using the cctimer as an interrupt source,
being stopped and resumed periodically.

upreuse
=======

Illustrates how to reuse sprocs and destroy/create UP frame schedulers.

user_intr
=========

A demonstration of driving a frame scheduler by user-generated interrupts.

vsync_intr
==========

Multiple frame schedulers, using vsync interrupts as an interrupt source.

variable_s1
===========

A single frame scheduler with variable length minor frames, using either
the cctimer or the cputimer as the interrupt source.
 
variable_s2
===========

A single frame scheduler with variable length minor frames, using two
interrupt sources: user-generated and cputimer.

variable_s3
===========

A single frame scheduler with variable length minor frames, using two
interrupt sources: vsync and cputimer.

variable_m1
===========

Three synchronized frame schedulers with variable length minor frames,
using a single interrupt source (cputimer).

variable_m2
===========

Three synchronized frame schedulers with variable length minor frames,
using two interrupt sources: user-generated and cputimer.

variable_m3
===========

Three synchronized frame schedulers with variable length minor frames,
using two interrupt sources: vsync and cputimer.

variable_pt_m1
==============

Three synchronized frame schedulers with variable length minor frames,
scheduling pthreads, using the cctimer as the interrupt source.

rtmon_user_tstamps
==================

Example of generating user timestamps for use with IRIXview.

eiuli
=====

User Level interrupt handlers using the external interrupt.
