.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} dks 7M "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
dks \- dksc (SCSI) disk driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/dev/dsk/dks*
/dev/rdsk/dks*
/dev/dsk/\f2nodename\f3/lun*/c*p*
/dev/rdsk/\f2nodename\f3/lun*/c*p*
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3dksc\f1 driver supports all disk types that use a SCSI command
set.  This includes traditional parallel SCSI as well as Fibre Channel
Arbitrated Loop and Fibre Channel Fabric devices (devices connected
through a Fibre Channel switch).  Currently, 8 bit parallel SCSI (also
called narrow SCSI) allows
up to seven SCSI drives attached per SCSI bus, 16 bit parallel SCSI
(also called wide SCSI) allows 15 drives.  Fibre Channel Arbitrated
Loop (FC-AL) allows up to 125 drives (some implementations limit the
number to 110).  The maximum number addressable through Fibre Channel
Fabric has no theoretical limit.  However, practical considerations
do limit the number to 252 drives for current adapters.
Each drive (a RAID controller is considered a "drive" for these purposes)
can support a number of logical units (luns).
The current limit depends on the host adapter.  It varies from 8 to 64.
Each unit (or lun) can have up to
16 partitions in use, three of which (8, 9, and 10) are special (see below).
.PP
Disk devices are named according to the following formats (jaguar drives
are no longer supported):
.P
.B Parallel SCSI and FC-AL
.Ex
\f3/dev/rdsk/dks\f1\f2controller#\f1\f3d\f1\f2drive#\f1{\f3s\f1\f2partition#\f1|\f3vh\f1|\f3vol\f1}
\f3/dev/rdsk/dks\f1\f2controller#\f1\f3d\f1\f2drive#\f1\f3l\f1\f2lun#\f1{\f3s\f1\f2partition#\f1|\f3vh\f1|\f3vol\f1}
\f3/dev/dsk/dks\f1\f2controller#\f1\f3d\f1\f2drive#\f1\f3s\f1\f2partition#\f1
\f3/dev/dsk/dks\f1\f2controller#\f1\f3d\f1\f2drive#\f1\f3l\f1\f2lun#\f1\f3s\f1\f2partition#\f1
.Ee
.P
.B Fibre Channel Fabric
.Ex
\f3/dev/rdsk/\f1\f2nodename\f1\f3/lun\f1\f2lun#\f1{\f3s\f1\f2partition#\f1|\f3vh\f1|\f3vol\f1}\f3/c\f1\f2controller#\f1\f3p\f1\f2port#
\f3/dev/dsk/\f1\f2nodename\f1\f3/lun\f1\f2lun#\f1\f3s\f1\f2partition#\f1\f3/c\f1\f2controller#\f1\f3p\f1\f2port#
.Ee
Note that the Fabric device names always specify the \f2lun#\f1, even
if it is zero.
The \f3rdsk\f1 devices use a raw interface to communicate with the
disk, while the \f3dsk\f1 devices use a block interface.
The
\f2controller#\f1, \f2drive#\f1, and \f2lun#\f1 are used
to indicate SCSI controller number, target ID, and logical unit number,
respectively.
The \f2nodename\f1 and \f2port#\f1 are used to indicate the Fibre Channel
world wide name (WWN) and the device port number (normal Fibre Channel
disks have two ports).
\f3s\f1\f2partition#\f1, \f3vh\f1, and \f3vol\f1 indicate
a partition of the disk.
The \f3vh\fP and \f3vol\fP devices are only in the \f3rdsk\fP directory,
since they are normally used only for \f3ioctl\fP and raw access.
.PP
The standard partition allocation by Silicon Graphics has
.I root
on partition 0,
.I swap
on partition 1, and (optionally)
.I /usr
on partition 6.
Some systems, such as the Indy, are shipped from the
factory with a single filesystem on the system disk for ease of administration.
In this case, partition 6 is not used.
Partition 7 (when present), normally maps the entire
.I usable
portion of the disk (excluding the volume header).
Partition 8 (\f3vh\fP) maps the volume header (see
.IR prtvtoc (1M),
.IR dvhtool (1M)).
Partition 10 (\f3vol\fP) maps the entire drive.
Partition 9 is reserved, but is not used for disks with the \f3dksc\fP driver.
.PP
In current releases, these devices are
part of the hardware graph hwgfs(4), and are
created dynamically as the disk partitions are
changed. Therefore \f3MAKEDEV\f1 no longer needs to be run, nor
does it need to be modified to create additional partition devices.
The partitions will
be created/updated whenever a disk is opened, such as when a filesystem is
mounted, or when programs such as \f3fx(1M)\f1 and \f3prtvtoc(1M)\f1
access the disk.
For devices that are hot-plugged, the bus that they are plugged into
must be reprobed and reconfigured (see \f3scsiha(1m)\f1 and
\f3ioconfig(1M)\f1) in order for the partitions to be created.
.PP
For removeable media devices, \f3mediad(1M)\f1, if running, will cause
these updates to occur after media changes. In the absense of
mediad, the user will need to run code or execute commands that will
cause an open against the volume header. \f3fx(1M)\f1 or \f3prtvtoc(1M)\f1
are two examples of commands that will do this, as well as the
\f3DIOCGETVH ioctl\f1 (see below) issued by a program.
.PP
The standard configuration has
.I /dev/root
linked to partition 0 of the system disk, with
.I /dev/swap
linked to partition 1 of the system disk, and
.I /dev/usr
linked to partition 6 of the system disk.
Systems that do not
use partition 6 as shipped, instead using just the s0 and s1 partitions,
still have a link made.
There is no attempt to make the link to
the device used for the \f3/usr\fP filesystem in the
.IR fstab (4)
file, if present, even if it uses a different device.
Option disks normally use the s7 partition as a single filesystem,
containing the whole usable portion of the disk.
.SH IOCTL FUNCTIONS
As well as normal read and write operations, the driver supports a number
of special
.IR ioctl (2)
operations when opened via the character
special file in
.IR /dev/rdsk .
Command values for these are defined in the system
include file
.RI < sys/dkio.h >,
with data structures in
.RI < sys/dksc.h >.
.br
These
.I ioctl
operations are intended for the use of special-purpose disk
utilities.
Many of them can have drastic or even fatal effects on disk
operation if misused;
they should be invoked only by the knowledgeable and with extreme caution!
.PP
A list of the
.I ioctl
commands supported by the
.I dks
driver is given below.
.TP
DIOCADDBB
Adds a block to the badblock list.
The argument is the logical block number
(not a pointer) on the drive.
For some makes of drives, the spared
block must be written before the sparing takes effect.
Only programs running
with superuser permissions can use this ioctl.
.TP
DIOCDRIVETYPE
The first
.B SCSI_DEVICE_NAME_SIZE
bytes (currently 28) of the SCSI inquiry data for the drive is returned to the caller.
The argument is a pointer to a char array of at least this size.
This contains vendor and drive specific information such as the drive name
and model number.
See a SCSI command specification for details on the structure of this buffer.
.TP
DIOCFORMAT
Formats the entire drive.
Any information on the drive is lost.
The grown
defect list (blocks spared with DIOCADDBB) is empty after formatting is
complete, blocks previously in the grown defect list are no longer spared.
.TP
DIOCGETVH
Reads the disk volume header from the driver into a buffer in the calling
program.
The argument in the ioctl call must point to a buffer of size
at least 512 bytes.
The structure of the volume header is defined in the include file
\f2<sys/dvh.h>\f1.
The corresponding call DIOCSETVH sets the drivers idea of the volume header;
in particular, the drivers idea of the partition sizes and offsets is
changed.
.TP
DIOCPREVREM
Issues a PREVENT ALLOW MEDIA REMOVAL command to the opened device.
The
first bit of the arg is or'd into byte 4 of the SCSI command.
See a SCSI command specification for details on this command.
.TP
DIOCRDEFECTS
The argument is a pointer to a struct dk_ioctl_data.
The i_addr field
points to a structure like:
.IP
.RS
.nf
	structure defect_list {
		struct defect_header defhdr;
		struct defect_entry defentry[NENTS];
	};
.fi
.RE
.IP
The i_len field is set to the total length of the structure, which must
be less than NBPP from \f2<sys/param.h>\f1;
at most NENTS defects are returned.
The actual number of defects can be determined by examining the
defhdr.defect_listlen value, which is the number of bytes returned.
This
must be divided by the size of the applicable data structure for the type
requested.
The i_page field should be
set to the bits identifying the badblock reporting type.
These bits
request the combination of manufacturer's and grown defects; and one
of bytes from index, physical cyl/head/sec, vendor unique.
The only
combination that works with all currently supported SCSI disks is
type cyl/head/sec; and either combined manufacturer's and grown defects,
or just manufacturer's defects.
.TP
DIOCREADCAPACITY
The arg is a pointer to an unsigned integer.
The value returned is the
number of usable sectors on the drive (as read from the drive).
.TP
DIOCSCSIINQ
The arg is a pointer to a char array at least SCSI_INQUIRY_LEN bytes long.
The SCSI inquiry data from the device is copied to this buffer.
See a SCSI command specification for details on the structure of this buffer.
.TP
DIOCSENSE / DIOCSELECT
The argument is a pointer to a struct dk_ioctl_data.
This allows sending
SELECT and SENSE commands to the drive.
See the ANSI SCSI specification
and individual manufacturer's manuals for allowed page numbers and
valid values.
Only programs running with superuser permissions can use the
DIOCSELECT ioctl.
.TP
DIOCSTARTSTOP
This command issues a SCSI STARTSTOP command to the opened device.
The first two bits of the arg are or'd into byte 4 of the SCSI command.
See a SCSI command specification for details on this command.
.TP
DIOCTEST
issues the SCSI "Send Diagnostic" command to the drive.
The exact tests
done are manufacturer specific.
The
.I ioctl
call returns 0 upon success,
or sets
.I errno
to EIO and returns \-1 upon failure.
.SH NOTES
Fibre Channel fabric device names are meant to separate three concepts;
device specification, portion of device, and path to device.  Thus the
\f2nodename\f1 specifies a unique device, such as a disk drive or a
RAID controller.  The \f2lun#\f1 and \f2partition#\f1 specify which portion
of the disk or RAID is accesses, and the \f2controller#\f1 and \f2port#\f1
specify the path the data and commands travel to and from the device.
.SH FILES
.nf
/dev/dsk/dks*
/dev/rdsk/dks*
/dev/dsk/*/lun*/c*p*
/dev/rdsk/*/lun*/c*p*
/dev/root
/dev/usr
/dev/swap
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
dvhtool(1M),
fx(1M),
prtvtoc(1M),
scsiha(1M),
ioconfig(1M).
