'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ETHERNET 7
.SH NAME
ethernet \- Ethernet controllers
.SH DESCRIPTION
IRIX supports local-area networking with Ethernet.
The Ethernet protocol is supported with a hardware controller and
a kernel driver.
Though the controllers are different among the various hardware platforms,
their drivers provide the same programming interface to
networking routines.
.P
Most ethernet controllers are named using the following convention:
the prefix is `e' and the suffix ('N') is the controller unit number.  However,
not all drivers follow this, as shown below:
.sp
.in +5n
.nf
Name	Type		Model
ec0	on-board	Indigo, Indigo2, Indy, CHALLENGE S/M (10baseT)
ec0	on-board	O2 (10/100baseTX)
ec1	PCI		O2 (10/100baseTX)
et0	on-board	POWER Series, Challenge/Onyx systems (10baseT)
etN	HIO		POWER Series, Challenge/Onyx systems (10baseT)
ef0	on-board	OCTANE, Origin Series Fast Ethernet (10/100baseTX)
efN	XIO		OCTANE, Origin Series Fast Ethernet (10/100baseTX)
epN	HIO		CHALLENGE/Onyx, POWER CHALLENGE/POWER Onyx (10baseT)
fxpN	VME		CHALLENGE/Onyx, POWER CHALLENGE/POWER Onyx (10baseT)
gfeN	GIO		Indy, Indigo, Indigo2, CHALLENGE S (10/100baseTX)
vfeN	VME		CHALLENGE/Onyx, POWER CHALLENGE/POWER Onyx (10/100baseTX)
.fi
.in -5n
.DT
.sp
Depending on the model, several Ethernet controllers are supported,
allowing the system to act as a gateway among different local networks.
.P
The Ethernet boards are initialized during system startup from
/etc/init.d/network 
(see
.IR network (1M)
for details).
.P
IRIX implements the Ethernet encapsulation format.
Each packet has a 14-byte header, as defined in the #include file
.RI < netinet/if_ether.h >:
.Ex 5
struct ether_header {
	u_char	ether_dhost[6];	/* destination address */
	u_char	ether_shost[6];	/* source address */
	u_short	ether_type;	/* packet type */
};
.Ee
.P
The packet type determines which kernel protocol routine is called to
process the packet data.
Examples of common packet types are IP, ARP, and DECnet.
.sp
On systems with 10/100baseTX capability, auto-negotiation is enabled by default;
through auto-negotiation, the ethernet transceiver will select the highest
performance common connection technology between a local host and a remote
host.  For the OCTANE and Origin systems, 
refer to 
.I /var/sysgen/master.d/if_ef
if the manual selection of ethernet
speed and duplex mode is desired.   For the O2 on-board ethernet, the PROM
variable 'ec0mode' can be used to select the desired speed (legal values are:
10, 100, f100, and h100).  For the O2 add-on ethernet, refer to
.I /var/sysgen/master.d/if_ecf
if the manual selection of ethernet
speed and duplex mode is desired.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Various error messages are printed by the kernel when a problem is encountered.
The message is preceded by the controller name, e.g., et0.
Serious errors are flagged with a dagger (\(dg).
If they occur repeatedly, contact your product support service for assistance.
By default, many non-serious errors will not cause a
diagnostic message to be displayed on the console.
To enable all driver diag messages,
use the command
.B "ifconfig xxx debug"
where xxx is the ethernet network interface name.
.P
The following error messages are common to all controllers:
.RS 3n
.IP "packet too small (length = X)" 5
.PD 0
.IP "packet too large (length = X)" 5
The controller received a packet that was smaller than the minimum
Ethernet packet size of 60 bytes or larger than the maximum of 1514.
This problem is caused by another machine with a bad Ethernet controller
or transceiver.
.PD
.IP "stray interrupt" 5
.PD 0
.IP "early interrupt" 5
The controller interrupted the kernel before the device was initialized.
This error is innocuous; it occurs after booting a kernel over the 
network from the PROM monitor.
.PD
.TP 5
died and restarted
The controller failed to respond after a certain amount of time and the
driver had to reset it.
.TP 5
cannot handle address family
This message indicates an error in the kernel protocol handling routines.\(dg
.RE
.P
The following messages are specific to the ec and et controllers.
.RS 3n
.TP 5
no carrier: check Ethernet cable
Carrier was not detected when attempting to transmit, probably
because the Ethernet cable is unplugged from the machine (but possibly
due to a broken transceiver, transceiver cable, or 10baseT hub).
.TP 5
late collision
The controller tried to transmit a packet but received a late collision signal
from another machine.
Usually indicates a problem in the Ethernet cable layout.
.IP "transmit buffer error" 5
.PD 0
.IP "receive buffer error" 5
.IP "transmit underflow" 5
.IP "receive packet overflow" 5
The controller ran out of memory when trying to transmit or receive a packet.\(dg
.PD
.TP 5
unknown interrupt
The controller interrupted the kernel but the reason for the interrupt
is missing.\(dg
.TP 5
babbling
The kernel tried to transmit a packet larger than the maximum size.\(dg
.TP 5
machine has bad Ethernet address: x:x:x:x:x:x
The Ethernet address obtained from non-volatile RAM during controller
initialization was corrupted.\(dg
.TP 5
memory timeout
The LANCE Ethernet chip failed to access its local memory.\(dg
.RE
.P
Counts of Ethernet input and output errors can be displayed with the command
.I "netstat \-i"
(see
.IR netstat (1M)).
Typically, output errors and collisions occur due to mismatched
controller and transceiver configurations.
Input error statistics include counts of the errors listed above and counts
of protocol input queue overflows.
.SH "Configuring additional ethernet ports on Challenge/Onyx L/XL systems"
Onyx and Challenge L/XL systems only enable the ethernet on the master IO4
by default.  To activate the ethernet interfaces on other IO4 boards, a
vector line must be added to \f3/var/sysgen/system/irix.sm\fP.  
The following vector line configures the ethernet interface on the 
IO4 in slot 13 as et1:
.PP
VECTOR: bustype=EPC module=epcether unit=1 slot=13
.PP
The first two options (bustype and module) are mandatory and tell lboot
that you're configuring an ethernet interface.  The "unit" option specifies
the ethernet unit number. The unit number must be greater than 0.  The "slot" 
option specifies the slot of the IO4 whose ethernet interface is being 
configured as et1.
.PP
After updating the \f3irix.sm\fP file, autoconfig(1m) should be executed
to reconfigure the kernel.  To make the new interface available, reboot
the machine with the new kernel. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
netstat(1M), network(1M), socket(2), ip(7P), raw(7P), snoop(7P), drain(7P), ioconfig(1M)
.SH NOTE
IEEE 802.3 Ethernet encapsulation is not currently supported.
Some Ethernet controllers will support IEEE 802.3 and Ethernet v.1/v.2
electrical specifications.
Contact your product support service for more information.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.sgi
