'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH keyboard 7
.SH NAME
keyboard \- keyboard specifications
.SH DESCRIPTION
The keyboard used on the 4D series, Indigo, Crimson and Onyx systems
is an up-down encoded 101-key keyboard.
.PP
The keyboard connects to the main electronics cabinet through a
shielded partially coiled cord and is detachable at the
system cabinet only.
The mouse plugs into either side of the keyboard.
Ports are provided on both sides of the enclosure to
allow access to left-handed and right-handed mouse connectors.
The keyboard cord contains low voltage direct current
power feeds and two serial links; one for the mouse and one
for the keyboard.
The keyboard serial link is bidirectional, allowing
for control of indicator lights and other keyboard functions.
Each time a key is pressed or released, a code is sent via the keyboard
serial link.
Every key has a different upcode and downcode.
All keys
function the same way, allowing the system software to use
keys in any manner.
Auto-repeat is the only function that treats keys
differently.
When auto-repeat is enabled, a subset of the keys
repeat when held down.
Multiple key presses/releases
result in all key transitions being reported.
.SS "Electrical Interface"
The keyboard serial I/O interface uses RS423 levels and communicates
asynchronously to the system at 600 baud.
The format used is one start bit followed by eight data bits, an odd
parity bit and one stop bit, with one byte sent per key up or
down transition.
The idle state and true data bits for the interface
are Mark level or -5V, whereas false data bits and the start bit
are spaces or \f3+\f15V.
.PP
The pin assignments for the keyboard connector on machines with
DB-15 connectors are shown in the following
table:
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|l|l
c|l|l.
\f3KEYBOARD CONNECTOR PINOUT\f1
_
Pin>Signal>Description
_
1>GND>Ground
2>GND>Ground
3>GND>Ground
4>KTXD>Keyboard Transmit
5>KRCD>Keyboard Receive
7>\f3+\f112Vdc>Power
8>\f3+\f112Vdc>Power
9>\f3+\f112Vdc>Power
10>MTXD>Mouse Transmit
11>NC>Reserved
12>NC>Reserved
15>-12Vdc>Power
.TE
.sp .8v
The pin assignments for the DB-9 keyboard connector on the
Personal IRIS 4D/20 and 4D/25 machines are shown in the following
table for both the CPU connector and the connectors on the
keyboard itself.
The connectors on each side of the keyboard
are identical, so the mouse can be attached on either side.
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s s
c|l|l|l
c|l|l|l.
\f3KEYBOARD CABLE PINOUT\f1
_
Pin>CPU Signal>Keyboard Signal>Description
_
1>NC>\f3+\f15Vdc>Power
2>KRCD>KTXD>Keyboard to CPU
3>NC>\f3-\f15Vdc>Power
4>\f3-\f112Vdc>\f3-\f112Vdc>Power
5>MRCD>MTXD>Mouse to CPU
6>GND>GND>Ground
7>\f3+\f112Vdc>\f3+\f112Vdc>Power
8>KTXD>KRCD>CPU to Keyboard
9>GND>GND>Ground
.TE
.sp .8v
The pin assignments for the DIN-6 keyboard connector on the
CPU board of some of the newer systems are shown in the following
table:
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|l|l
c|l|l.
\f3KEYBOARD CABLE PINOUT\f1
_
Pin>Signal>Description
_
1>KRCD>Keyboard Receive
2>MRCD>Mouse Receive
3>GND>Ground
4>\f3+\f18Vdc>Power
5>KTXD>Keyboard Transmit
6>\f3-\f18Vdc>Power
.TE
.sp .8v
The pin assignments for the mouse port connector (on the keyboard, not
on the CPU) for keyboards with DB9 connector are shown in the following table;
either connector on the keyboard can be used for the mouse or for the
keyboard cable.
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|l|l
c|l|l.
\f3MOUSE PORT\f1
_
Pin>Signal>Description
_
1>\f3+\f15V>Power
3>-5V>Power
5>MTXD>Transmit Data
9>GND>Ground
.TE
.sp .8v
For machines whose keyboards have the DIN-6 connector on the
keyboard, as well as on the CPU,
the pinout is shown in the following table.
The connectors
on both sides of the keyboard have identical pinout, either
can be used for the mouse and the cable to the CPU.
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|l|l
c|l|l.
\f3KEYBOARD CONNECTOR PINOUT\f1
_
Pin>Signal>Description
_
1>KTXD>Keyboard Transmit
2>MTXD>Mouse Transmit
3>GND>Ground
4>\f3+\f18Vdc>Power
5>KRCD>Keyboard Receive
6>NC>Not Connected
.TE
.SS "Software Interface"
The interface between the keyboard and the system is 600 baud asynchronous.
The format used is one start bit followed by eight data bits, an odd
parity bit and one stop bit, with one byte sent per key up or
down transition.
The MSB of the byte is a \f30\f1 for a downstroke and
a \f31\f1 for an upstroke.
Control bytes are sent to
the keyboard with the same speed and format.
The system software does all the processing needed to support
functions such as capitalization, control characters, and numeric lock.
Auto-repeat for a specified set of characters can be turned on or off
by the system software by sending a control byte to the keyboard.
When auto-repeat is enabled, a pressed key begins auto-repeating
after 0.65 seconds and repeats 28 times per second.
The keyboard initializes upon power-up.
The configuration request control byte causes the
keyboard to send a two-byte sequence to the system.
The second byte
contains the eight-bit value set on a DIP switch in the keyboard.
All keyboard lights (if any; some newer systems have keyboards without
user controllable lights) are controlled by the system software by sending
control bytes to the keyboard to turn them on or off.
Control bytes are also used for long and short beep control and key
click disable.
When key click is enabled, the keys click when they
are pressed.
The long beep duration is 1 second and the short beep duration
is 0.2 second.
There are three lights
labeled NUM LOCK, CAPS LOCK, and SCROLL LOCK that are under software control.
On older keyboards there are also four general-purpose keyboard lights
labeled L1 through L4.
The required keycode mappings and control byte formats are shown in the
following tables.
Note that the legend names prefixed by two asterisks
are reserved and not implemented on the keyboard.
Legend names prefixed by two exclamation marks do NOT have the auto-repeat
enable capability.
Legend names prefixed by two dollar signs do
NOT have the key click enable capability.
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3LEGENDS VS KEYCODES IN DECIMAL\f1
_
Legend>Code
_
AKEY>10
BKEY>35
CKEY>27
DKEY>17
EKEY>16
FKEY>18
GKEY>25
HKEY>26
IKEY>39
JKEY>33
KKEY>34
LKEY>41
MKEY>43
NKEY>36
OKEY>40
PKEY>47
QKEY>9
RKEY>23
SKEY>11
TKEY>24
UKEY>32
VKEY>28
WKEY>15
XKEY>20
YKEY>31
ZKEY>19
ZEROKEY>45
ONEKEY>7
TWOKEY>13
THREEKEY>14
FOURKEY>21
FIVEKEY>22
SIXKEY>29
SEVENKEY>30
EIGHTKEY>37
NINEKEY>38
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3LEGENDS VS KEYCODES IN DECIMAL\f1
_
Legend>Code
_
**!!BREAKKEY>0
**!!SETUPKEY>1
$$!!LEFTCTRL>2
$$!!CAPSLOCKKEY>3
$$!!RIGHTSHIFTKEY>4
$$!!LEFTSHIFTKEY>5
**!!NOSCRLKEY>12
!!ESCKEY>6
!!TABKEY>8
RETURN.ENTER>50
SPACEKEY>82
**LINEFEEDKEY>59
BACKSPACEKEY>60
DELKEY>61
SEMICOLONKEY>42
PERIODKEY>51
COMMAKEY>44
QUOTEKEY">49
ACCENTGRAVEKEY~>54
MINUSKEY>46
VIRGULEKEY?>52
BACKSLASHKEY>56
EQUALKEY>53
LEFTBRACKETKEY>48
RIGHTBRACKETKEY>55
LEFTARROWKEY>72
DOWNARROWKEY>73
RIGHTARROWKEY>79
UPARROWKEY>80
PAD0>58
PAD1>57
PAD2>63
PAD3>64
PAD4>62
PAD5>68
PAD6>69
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3LEGENDS VS KEYCODES IN DECIMAL\f1
_
Legend>Code
_
PAD7>66
PAD8>67
PAD9>74
**PADPF1>71
**PADPF2>70
**PADPF3>78
**PADPF4>77
PADPERIOD>65
PADMINUS>75
**PADCOMMA>76
!!PADENTER>81
$$!!LEFTALT>83
$$!!RIGHTALT>84
$$!!RIGHTCTRL>85
F1>86
F2>87
F3>88
F4>89
F5>90
F6>91
F7>92
F8>93
F9>94
F10>95
F11>96
F12>97
!!PRINT.SCREEN>98
$$!!SCROLL.LOCK>99
!!PAUSE>100
!!INSERT>101
!!HOME>102
!!PAGEUP>103
!!END>104
!!PAGEDOWN>105
$$!!NUM.LOCK>106
PAD.BKSLASH/>107
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3LEGENDS VS KEYCODES IN DECIMAL\f1
_
Legend>Code
_
PAD.ASTER*>108
PAD.PLUS+>109
config byte(1st of 2 bytes)>110
config byte(2nd of 2 bytes)>DIP SW
GERlessThan>111
spare1>112
spare2>113
spare3>114
spare4>115
spare6>117
spare7>118
spare8>119
spare9>120
spare10>121
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3KEYCODES IN DECIMAL VS LEGENDS\f1
_
Code>Legend
_
0>**BREAKKEY
1>**!!SETUPKEY
2>$$!!LEFTCTRL
3>$$!!CAPSLOCKKEY
4>$$!!RIGHTSHIFTKEY
5>$$!!LEFTSHIFTKEY
6>!!ESCKEY
7>ONEKEY
8>!!TABKEY
9>QKEY
10>AKEY
11>SKEY
12>**!!NOSCRLKEY
13>TWOKEY
14>THREEKEY
15>WKEY
16>EKEY
17>DKEY
18>FKEY
19>ZKEY
20>XKEY
21>FOURKEY
22>FIVEKEY
23>RKEY
24>TKEY
25>GKEY
26>HKEY
27>CKEY
28>VKEY
29>SIXKEY
30>SEVENKEY
31>YKEY
32>UKEY
33>JKEY
34>KKEY
35>BKEY
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3KEYCODES IN DECIMAL VS LEGENDS\f1
_
Code>Legend
_
36>NKEY
37>EIGHTKEY
38>NINEKEY
39>IKEY
40>OKEY
41>LKEY
42>SEMICOLONKEY
43>MKEY
44>COMMAKEY
45>ZEROKEY
46>MINUSKEY
47>PKEY
48>LEFTBRACKET
49>QUOTEKEY
50>RETURN.ENTER
51>PERIODKEY
52>VIRGULEKEY
53>EQUALKEY
54>ACCENTGRAVEKEY
55>RIGHTBRACKETKEY
56>BACKSLASHKEY
57>PADONEKEY
58>PADZEROKEY
59>**LINEFEEDKEY
60>BACKSPACEKEY
61>DELETEKEY
62>PADFOURKEY
63>PADTWOKEY
64>PADTHREEKEY
65>PADPERIODKEY
66>PADSEVENKEY
67>PADEIGHTKEY
68>PADFIVEKEY
69>PADSIXKEY
70>**PADPF2KEY
71>**PADPF1KEY
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3KEYCODES IN DECIMAL VS LEGENDS\f1
_
Code>Legend
_
72>LEFTARROWKEY
73>DOWNARROWKEY
74>PADNINEKEY
75>PADMINUSKEY
76>**PADCOMMAKEY
77>**PADPF4KEY
78>**PADPF3KEY
79>RIGHTARROWKEY
80>UPARROWKEY
81>!!PADENTERKEY
82>SPACEKEY
83>$$!!LEFTALT
84>$$!!RIGHTALT
85>$$!!RIGHTCTRL
86>F1
87>F2
88>F3
89>F4
90>F5
91>F6
92>F7
93>F8
94>F9
95>F10
96>F11
97>F12
98>!!PRINT.SCREEN
99>$$!!SCROLL.LOCK
100>!!PAUSE
101>!!INSERT
102>!!HOME
103>!!PAGEUP
104>!!END
105>!!PAGEDOWN
106>$$!!NUM.LOCK
107>PAD.BKSLASH/
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3KEYCODES IN DECIMAL VS LEGENDS\f1
_
Code>Legend
_
108>PAD.ASTER*
109>PAD.PLUS+
110>config byte(1st of 2 bytes)
DIP SW>config byte(2nd of 2 bytes)
.\"111>GERlessThan
.\"112>spare1
.\"113>spare2
.\"114>spare3
.\"115>spare4
.\"117>spare6
.\"118>spare7
.\"119>spare8
.\"120>spare9
.\"121>spare10
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|c s
c|c|c
c|c|c.
\f3CONTROL BYTES RECOGNIZED BY KEYBOARD\f1
_
BIT>DESCRIPTION
TRUE>BIT 0 = 0>BIT 0 = 1
_
1>short beep>complement ds1 and ds2
2>long beep>ds3
3>click disable>ds4
4>return configuration byte>ds5
5>ds1>ds6
6>ds2>ds7
7>enable auto-repeat>not used
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3DISPLAY LABELS\f1
_
DISPLAY DESIGNATION>LABEL
_
ds1>NUM LOCK
ds2>CAPS LOCK
ds3>SCROLL LOCK
ds4>L1
ds5>L2
ds6>L3
ds7>L4
.TE
.SH NOTE
Indy, Indigo2, O2, OCTANE and Onyx2 
use a PS/2 style keyboard (detailed in
\f2pckeyboard\f1(7)) that uses a different scan code set.
This difference may break compatibility for some programs that operate with
raw scan codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
keyboard(1),
mouse(7),
pckeyboard(7),
pcmouse(7).
