'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH pckeyboard 7
.SH NAME
pckeyboard \- keyboard specifications
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Indy, Indigo2, O2, OCTANE and Onyx2 systems use an industry-standard
PC-compatible keyboard with a PS/2 style (6 pin mini-DIN) connector.
.PP
The keyboard connects to the back of the system unit with a
shielded partially coiled cord and is detachable at the
system cabinet only.
The system communicates with the keyboard via a clocked serial protocol.
SGI uses keyboard scan code set 3, which sends a scan code on
key press and a "break" code followed by repeating the scan code.
Every key has a unique scan code.
All keys function the same way, allowing the system software to use
keys in any manner.
.SS Compatibility
Most PC keyboards work out of the box (they may require a 5 pin DIN to
6 pin mini-DIN) if they match the normal 101-key layout.
Keyboards with different or extra keys may require tuning of keyboard map.
The following keyboards have been tested (some only briefly) and seem to
function correctly:
.sp .8v
.nf
	SGI Indigo\u2\d keyboards (US and several international models)
	SGI Indy keyboards (US and several international models)
	Kinesis ergonomic keyboard, Model 100, 110, 120 and 130
	Comfort Keyboard System
	IBM PS/2 Model M (P/N 1391401)
	IBM 101 Key Keyboard with Trackpoint II - PS Style (P/N 92G7461)
	Microsoft Natural Keyboard
	Compaq enhanced II keyboard, domestic/101
	Qtronix QX-601R
.fi
.PP
Some keyboards that are known not to work, or require minor changes:
.sp .8v
.nf
	Lexmark M13 (Select_ease) - Does not always power-on correctly.
                See nogfxkbd option in \f2prom\f1(1m).
	Data Hand - Newer versions are reported to work, but older
		ones do not.
	PC Concepts Ergonomic - does not implement scan code set 3.
.fi
.SS "Electrical Interface"
The PC keyboard uses a clocked serial I/O interface.
The format used is one start bit (always false) followed by eight data bits,
an odd parity bit and one stop bit (always true).
The true data bits are at least +2.4V and less than +5.5V, while
the false data bits are at least 0V and less than +0.7V.
While inactive, the clock and data lines are held high, which indicates
the keyboard has the right to send data.
When the system wishes to send data to the keyboard it holds
the clock low and then proceeds with its transmission.
.PP
The pin assignments for the system keyboard connector are shown in
the following table:
.sp .8v
.eo
.ce
------
.ce
/ 5 3  \
.ce
| ---  1 |
.ce
| ---  2 |
.ce
\ 6 4  /
.ce
------
.ec
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|l.
Pin Assignments
_
Pin>Description
_
1>Data
2>Reserved
3>Signal Ground
4>Power +5V
5>Clock
6>Reserved
.TE
.SS "Software Interface"
System software interfaces to a PC keyboard controller that maintains the
clocked serial protocol with keyboard.
SGI uses keyboard scan code set 3, which sends a scan code on
key press and a "break" code followed by repeating the scan code.
The system software does all the processing needed to support
functions such as capitalization, control characters, and numeric lock.
Variable speed hardware auto-repeat for a specified set of characters
is supported and is used in standalone mode, while IRIX manages
auto-repeat in software.
The default hardware auto-repeat begins after 500 milliseconds and
repeats at a rate of 10.9 characters per second.
There are three lights labeled NUM LOCK, CAPS LOCK, and SCROLL LOCK
that are under software control.
The scan codes sent by the standard 101 key American keyboard are in
the following tables.
Note that the legend names prefixed by two asterisks
are only found on 102 key International keyboards.
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3LEGENDS VS KEYCODES IN HEXADECIMAL\f1
_
Legend>Code
_
AKEY>1C
BKEY>32
CKEY>21
DKEY>23
EKEY>24
FKEY>2B
GKEY>34
HKEY>33
IKEY>43
JKEY>3B
KKEY>42
LKEY>4B
MKEY>3A
NKEY>31
OKEY>44
PKEY>4D
QKEY>15
RKEY>2D
SKEY>1B
TKEY>2C
UKEY>3C
VKEY>2A
WKEY>1D
XKEY>22
YKEY>35
ZKEY>1A
ZEROKEY>45
ONEKEY>16
TWOKEY>1E
THREEKEY>26
FOURKEY>25
FIVEKEY>2E
SIXKEY>36
SEVENKEY>3D
EIGHTKEY>3E
NINEKEY>46
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3LEGENDS VS KEYCODES IN DECIMAL\f1
_
Legend>Code
_
LEFTCTRL>11
CAPSLOCKKEY>14
RIGHTSHIFTKEY>59
LEFTSHIFTKEY>12
ESCKEY>08
TABKEY>0D
ENTER>5A
SPACEKEY>29
BACKSPACEKEY>66
DELKEY>64
SEMICOLONKEY>4C
PERIODKEY>49
COMMAKEY>41
QUOTEKEY">52
ACCENTGRAVEKEY~>0E
MINUSKEY>4E
SLASHKEY>4A
BACKSLASHKEY>5C
EQUALKEY>55
LEFTBRACKETKEY>54
RIGHTBRACKETKEY>5B
LEFTARROWKEY>61
DOWNARROWKEY>60
RIGHTARROWKEY>6A
UPARROWKEY>63
PAD0>70
PAD1>69
PAD2>72
PAD3>7A
PAD4>6B
PAD5>73
PAD6>74
PAD7>6C
PAD8>75
PAD9>7D
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3LEGENDS VS KEYCODES IN DECIMAL\f1
_
Legend>Code
_
PADPERIOD>71
PADMINUS>84
PADENTER>79
LEFTALT>19
RIGHTALT>39
RIGHTCTRL>58
F1>07
F2>0F
F3>17
F4>1F
F5>27
F6>2F
F7>37
F8>3F
F9>47
F10>4F
F11>56
F12>5E
PRINT.SCREEN>57
SCROLL.LOCK>5F
PAUSE>62
INSERT>67
HOME>6E
PAGEUP>6F
END>65
PAGEDOWN>6D
NUM.LOCK>76
PAD.SLASH>77
PAD.ASTER>7E
PAD.PLUS>7C
**INTL.left>13
**INTL.right>53
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3KEYCODES IN HEXADECIMAL VS LEGENDS\f1
_
Code>Legend
_
07>F1
08>ESCKEY
0D>TABKEY
0E>ACCENTGRAVEKEY
0F>F2
11>LEFTCTRL
12>LEFTSHIFTKEY
13>**INTL.left
14>CAPSLOCKKEY
15>QKEY
16>ONEKEY
17>F3
19>LEFTALT
1A>ZKEY
1B>SKEY
1C>AKEY
1D>WKEY
1E>TWOKEY
1F>F4
21>CKEY
22>XKEY
23>DKEY
24>EKEY
25>FOURKEY
26>THREEKEY
27>F5
29>SPACEKEY
2A>VKEY
2B>FKEY
2C>TKEY
2D>RKEY
2E>FIVEKEY
2F>F6
31>NKEY
32>BKEY
33>HKEY
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3KEYCODES IN DECIMAL VS LEGENDS\f1
_
Code>Legend
_
34>GKEY
35>YKEY
36>SIXKEY
37>F7
39>RIGHTALT
3A>MKEY
3B>JKEY
3C>UKEY
3D>SEVENKEY
3E>EIGHTKEY
3F>F8
41>COMMAKEY
42>KKEY
43>IKEY
44>OKEY
45>ZEROKEY
46>NINEKEY
47>F9
49>PERIODKEY
4A>SLASHKEY
4B>LKEY
4C>SEMICOLONKEY
4D>PKEY
4E>MINUSKEY
4F>F10
52>QUOTEKEY"
53>**INTL.right
54>LEFTBRACKETKEY
55>EQUALKEY
56>F11
57>PRINT.SCREEN
58>RIGHTCTRL
59>RIGHTSHIFTKEY
5A>ENTER
5B>RIGHTBRACKETKEY
5C>BACKSLASHKEY
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3KEYCODES IN DECIMAL VS LEGENDS\f1
_
Code>Legend
_
5E>F12
5F>SCROLL.LOCK
60>DOWNARROWKEY
61>LEFTARROWKEY
62>PAUSE
63>UPARROWKEY
64>DELKEY
65>END
66>BACKSPACEKEY
67>INSERT
69>PAD1
6A>RIGHTARROWKEY
6B>PAD4
6C>PAD7
6D>PAGEDOWN
6E>HOME
6F>PAGEUP
70>PAD0
71>PADPERIOD
72>PAD2
73>PAD5
74>PAD6
75>PAD8
76>NUM.LOCK
77>PAD.SLASH
79>PADENTER
7A>PAD3
7C>PAD.PLUS
7D>PAD9
7E>PAD.ASTER
84>PADMINUS
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|c|c
c|c|c
c|c|c.
\f3CONTROL BYTES RECOGNIZED BY KEYBOARD\f1
_
Byte>Command>Additional Data
_
0xED>Set Status Indicators>LED bitmask
0xEE>Echo>
0xEF>Invalid Command>
0xF0>Select Alternate Scan Codes>Scan code set
0xF1>Invalid Command>
0xF2>Read ID>
0xF3>Set Typematic Rate/Delay>Encoded rate/delay
0xF4>Enable>
0xF5>Default Disable>
0xF6>Set Default>
0xF7>Set All Keys - Typematic>
0xF8>Set All Keys - Make/Break>
0xF8>Set All Keys - Make>
0xFA>Set All Keys - Typematic/Make/Break>Scan code
0xFB>Set All Key Type - Typematic>Scan code
0xFC>Set All Key Type - Make/Break>Scan code
0xFD>Set All Key Type - Make>
0xFE>Resend>
0xFF>Reset>
.TE
.sp .8v
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s
c|c
c|c.
\f3CONTROL BYTES SENT BY KEYBOARD\f1
_
DISPLAY DESIGNATION>LABEL
_
0x00>Key Detection Error/Overrun
0x83 0xAB>Keyboard ID
0xAA>BAT Completion Code
0xFC>BAT Failure Code
0xEE>Echo
0xF0>Break (key-up)
0xFA>Acknowledge (ACK)
0xFE>Resend
0xFF>Key Detection Error/Overrun
.TE
.SH NOTE
Some Silicon Graphics systems use a serial keyboard interface
(detailed in \f2keyboard\f1(7))
that uses a different scan code set.
This difference may break compatibility for some programs that operate with
raw scan codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
keyboard(1),
xmodmap(1),
prom(1m),
keyboard(7),
pcmouse(7).
