'\"! tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH PLP 7
.SH NAME
plp \-
parallel line printer interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/plp.h>
.br
.B /dev/plp 
.br
.B /dev/plpbi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The special file
.I /dev/plp\^
refers to the parallel printer interface on the
Indigo, Indy, Indigo2, Challenge/Onyx, O2, 
OCTANE, Origin200 and Onyx2 products. Special file
.I /dev/plpbi\^
is also available on the Indigo, Indy and Indigo2 platforms
and is used to access the parallel printer interface
in bidirectional access mode.
.PP
The plp device
supports output to a Centronics-compatible printer
connected to the builtin parallel printer port.
Normally,
.I /dev/plp \^
is directly accessed only by a print spooling
mechanism such as the \f3lp(1)\fP subsystem.
Multiple processes may open the device, but these processes
must synchronize writes to prevent intermingled data.
Processes may open the device read-only to obtain
printer status.
The special file
.I /dev/plpbi\^
may be open for reading and writing by one process at a time.
A printer reset is automatically issued only once at system startup.
.PP
Different platforms support different operation modes and features
as described below.
.PP
The plp devices on the O2 are IEEE 1284-II compliant and
supports all three IEEE 1284-II interfaces:
Compatibility(Centronics), bidirectional Enhanced Parallel
Port(EPP), and bidirectional Extended Capabilities Port(ECP).
Bidirectional Centronics mode is not supported. Compatibility
(Centronics) mode is actually available as two different types:
PIO or FIFO mode. FIFO Compatibility mode is a faster
Centronics mode which uses DMA access. PIO Compatibility
mode uses standard PIO access (no DMA). PIO Compatibility
mode has been found to be more compatible with some types
of printers and should be used only if problems occur in
FIFO Compatibility mode.
The O2 plp driver also has the capability
to perform auto-negotiation with printers (peripherals) to
set up the proper protocol. This auto-negotiation mode, or
any other supported mode, can be specified through
\fB/var/sysgen/master.d/ecplp\fP
to override the default mode (Compatibility FIFO mode).
.PP
The plp devices on the OCTANE, Origin200, and Onyx2
are IEEE 1284-II compliant devices. However only
Compatibility(Centronics) and Extended Capabilities Port(ECP)
output mode are supported. Bidirectional Centronics,
bidirectional ECP, EPP and auto-negotiation mode are not supported.
As with the O2 platform, Compatibility mode is available
as either FIFO or PIO Compatibility mode.
The default operation mode (Compatibility FIFO mode) can be changed through
\fB/var/sysgen/master.d/ecpplp\fP.
.PP
The Indigo, Indigo2, and Indy support only Centronics and
bidirectional Centronics interfaces.
.PP
The following ioctls are defined in the include file
.I <sys/plp.h>
and may be used to control the device:
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCRESET\fP
Asserts the reset signal to the printer.
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCSTROBE\fP
Sets the duration and duty cycle of the data strobe
output. A macro is provided, PLP_STROBE, which converts
strobe length to the argument format.  See
.IR <sys/plp.h>.
Does not apply to O2, OCTANE, Origin200, and Onyx2.
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCESTROBE\fP
Sets the set-up, pulse, and hold times of the data strobe
output. A macro is provided, PLP_ESTROBE, which converts
strobe length to the argument format.  See
.IR <sys/plp.h>.
Challenge/Onyx L/XL only.
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCIGNACK\fP
Argument of 1 causes the acknowledge input
from the interface to be ignored.  Argument of
0 reenables the acknowledge input.
Challenge/Onyx, R4k-Indigo only.
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCWTO\fP
Set write timeout value, the length of time a write
command will wait before timing out, in seconds
(default is 0 seconds which indicates infinite timeout).
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCRTO\fP
Set read timeout value, the length of time a read
command will wait before timing out, in seconds.
(default is 0 seconds which indicates infinite timeout).
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCREAD\fP
Enables the reads from the port (bidirectional mode). For all Indy
and Indigo2 products
PLPIOMODE ioctl is a prerequisite. Should only be set once at the
time the device is opened. Use the following code to set
it (it remains set until the port is closed).
.sp
.nf
        ....
    if (ioctl (scanner, PLPIOCREAD, 1) < 0) {
        close (scanner);
        return -1;
    }
        ....
.fi
.sp
For the O2 product, PLPIOCREAD ioctl is valid only in ECP or EPP mode.
.sp
For OCTANE, Origin200, and Onyx2, this ioctl is not supported.
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOMODE\fP
This ioctl changes the operation mode of the driver. It should
be used only immediately after opening the device. On
Indy, Indigo and Indigo2 platforms, this ioctl sets bidirectional
Centronics mode. On O2, OCTANE, Origin200, and Onyx2 products,
this ioctl sets the operation mode to any supported mode.
Only operation modes supported on the platforrm are
valid. For example, on Octane, Origin200, and Onyx2, only
PLP_PIO, PLP_ECP and PLP_COMP are valid.
Use the following code to set it:
.sp
.nf
        ....
      if (ioctl (scanner, PLPIOMODE, PLP_BI) < 0) {
        close (scanner);
        return -1;
      }
        ....
.fi
Does not apply to Challenge/Onyx.
.PP
.TP 15m
\f3PLPIOCSTATUS\fP
This ioctl returns the printer status as an integer bit-mask based
on constants defined in
.IR <sys/plp.h> .
The constants are described below:
.nf

        FAULT   Printer is in fault state
        EOI             End of Ink (Ribbon out)
        EOP             End of Paper
        ONLINE  Printer is on line

.fi
Not all printers/platforms support all of these status indications.
.SH FILES
/dev/plp, /dev/plpbi,
/var/sysgen/master.d/ecplp,
/var/sysgen/master.d/ecpplp
.SH NOTE
.PP
On O2, OCTANE, Origin200 and Onyx2 /dev/plp[n] are linked to
/hw/parallel/plp[n].  On driver unregistration and subsequent re-registration,
the /hw/parallel entries may no longer exist. Rerun ioconfig(1) to get the
entries set up again.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lp(1), pfd(7m)
.br
.ne 28 \" no keeps for -man macros
.SH "ELECTRICAL INTERFACE"
IEEE 1284-A 25-pin subminiature D-shell (standard DB-25) connector
at the host or the peripheral end.
.sp
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|c|l.
\f3IEEE 1284-A 25-PIN PARALLEL PORT CONNECTOR\f1
_

PIN>SIGNAL>DESCRIPTION
_

1>nStrobe>Strobe Data
2>Data1>Data Bit 0
3>Data2>Data Bit 1
4>Data3>Data Bit 2
5>Data4>Data Bit 3
6>Data5>Data Bit 4
7>Data6>Data Bit 5
8>Data7>Data Bit 6
9>Data8>Data Bit 7
10>nAck>Acknowledge
11>Busy>Peripheral Busy
12>PError>Page Error
13>Select>Peripheral Online
14>nAutoFd>Automatic Line Feed (or PR/SC)
15>nFault>Peripheral Fault
16>nInit>Peripheral Reset
17>nSelectIn>Turn Peripheral Online (or No Ink)
18-25>Gnd>Signal Ground
.TE
.sp
IEEE 1284-B 36-pin (normal Centronics) connector at the peripheral end.
.sp
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|c|l.
\f3IEEE 1284-B 36-PIN PARALLEL PORT CONNECTOR\f1
_

PIN>SIGNAL>DESCRIPTION
_

1>nStrobe>Strobe Data
2>Data1>Data Bit 0
3>Data2>Data Bit 1
4>Data3>Data Bit 2
5>Data4>Data Bit 3
6>Data5>Data Bit 4
7>Data6>Data Bit 5
8>Data7>Data Bit 6
9>Data8>Data Bit 7
10>nAck>Acknowledge
11>Busy>Peripheral Busy
12>PError>Page Error
13>Select>Peripheral Online
14>nAutoFd>Automatic Line Feed (or PR/SC)
15>->Not Defined (or No Paper)
16>Gnd>Logic Ground
17>Gnd>Chassis Ground (or No Ink)
18>PrnHigh>Peripheral Logic High (or N.C.)
19-30>Gnd>Signal Ground
31>nInit>Peripheral Reset
32>nFault>Peripheral Fault
33-35>->Not Defined
36>nSelectIn>Turn Peripheral Online
.TE
.sp
.sp
IEEE 1284-C 36-pin miniature connector at the host or the peripheral end.
.sp
.TS
center, tab(>);
c s s
c|c|l.
\f3IEEE 1284-C 36-PIN PARALLEL PORT CONNECTOR\f1
_

PIN>SIGNAL>DESCRIPTION
_

1>Busy>Peripheral Busy
2>Select>Peripheral Online
3>nAck>Acknowledge
4>nFault>Peripheral Fault
5>PError>Page Error
6>Data1>Data Bit 0
7>Data2>Data Bit 1
8>Data3>Data Bit 2
9>Data4>Data Bit 3
10>Data5>Data Bit 4
11>Data6>Data Bit 5
12>Data7>Data Bit 6
13>Data8>Data Bit 7
14>nInit>Peripheral Reset
15>nStrobe>Strobe Data
16>nSelectIn>Turn Peripheral Online
17>nAutoFd>Automatic Line Feed
18>HostHigh>Host Logic High
19-35>Gnd>Signal Ground
36>PrnHigh>Peripheral Logic High
.TE
.sp
