'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)exportent.3 1.4 88/03/01 D/NFS
.\" @(#)exportent.3 1.9 88/03/01 SMI;
.TH EXPORTENT 3
.SH NAME
exportent, getexportent, setexportent, addexportent, remexportent, endexportent, getexportopt \- get exported file system information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <stdio.h>
.br
.B "#include <exportent.h>
.PP
.B "\s-1FILE\s0 \(**setexportent(void);
.PP
.B "struct exportent \(**getexportent(\s-1FILE\s0 \(**filep);
.PP
.B "int addexportent(\s-1FILE\s0 \(**filep, char \(**dirname, char \(**options);
.PP
.B "int remexportent(\s-1FILE\s0 \(**filep, char \(**dirname);
.PP
.B "char \(**getexportopt(struct exportent \(**xent, char \(**opt);
.PP
.B "void endexportent(\s-1FILE\s0 \(**filep);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines access the exported filesystem information in
.IR /etc/xtab .
.LP
.I setexportent
opens the export information file and returns
a file pointer to use with
.IR getexportent ,
.IR addexportent ,
.IR remexportent ,
and
.IR endexportent .
.I getexportent
reads the next line from
.I filep
and returns a pointer to an object with the following structure
containing the broken-out fields of a line in the file,
.IR /etc/xtab .
The fields have meanings described in
.IR exports (4).
\s-2\f7
.in -3
.nf
#define ACCESS_OPT  ``access''  /* machines that can mount fs */
#define ROOT_OPT    ``root''    /* machines with root access of fs */
#define RO_OPT      ``ro''      /* export read-only */
#define RW_OPT      ``rw''      /* export read-mostly */
#define ANON_OPT    ``anon''    /* uid for anonymous requests */
#define NOHIDE_OPT  ``nohide''  /* visible from upper-exported fs */
struct exportent {
     char *xent_dirname;        /* directory (or file) to export */
     char *xent_options;        /* options, as above */
};
.fi
.in
\f1\s0
.LP
.I addexportent
adds the
.I exportent
to the end of the open file
.IR filep .
It returns 0 if successful and  \-1 on failure.
.I remexportent
removes the indicated entry from the list.  It also returns 0 on
success and \-1 on failure.
.I getexportopt
scans the
.I xent_options
field of the
.I exportent
structure for a substring that matches
.IR opt .
It returns the string value of
.IR opt ,
or
.SM NULL
if the option is not found.
.LP
.I endexportent
closes the file.
.SH NOTE
The \f3\s-1NOHIDE_OPT\s0\f1  option is specific to IRIX.
.P
To compile and link a program that calls these routines,
follow the procedures for section (3Y) routines as
described in
.IR intro (3).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/exports
.TP
/etc/xtab
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
exportfs(1M), exports(4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.SM NULL
pointer (0) returned on
.SM EOF
or error.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The returned
.I exportent
structure points to static information that is overwritten in each call.
