'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man3.rtmon_log_user_tstamp @(#)rtmon_log_user_tstamp 30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH "rtmon_log_user_tstamp" 3
.SH NAME
rtmon_log_user_tstamp  \- REACT/Pro user timestamp logging
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <sys/rtmon.h>

void rtmon_log_user_tstamp(evt, qual1, qual2, qual3, qual4)
.br
event_t evt;
.br
unsigned long long qual1, qual2, qual3, qual4;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rtmon_log_user_tstamp"
This function is available with -lrtmon or -lrtmonstubs.  Linking with
rtmonstubs will cause this call to have no effect.
rtmon_log_user_tstamp(evt, qual1, qual2, qual3, qual4) logs
event
.I evt.
event_t is an unsigned short allowing 64K events.  All events logged by
users with rtmon_log_user_tstamp are offset by 40000.  The range 60000-64K
is reserved for kernel events providing 20K events for user logging.  As an
example: if a user logs event 17 with rtmon_log_user_tstamp(17, value1,
value2, 0, 0), it will appear in the event stream as event 40017.  IRIXview
provides a "drop" mechanism for examining events.  This event as well as
other user events will be chronologically merged with any kernel events by
rtmond. The merged events can be viewed with IRIXview or collected and
saved to a file (for later examination) with rtmon-client. 
.SH "FILES"
.PD 0
.TP
\f4/usr/tmp/.rtmond_shm_file\f1
shared memory file with \f4rtmond\f1
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rtmond(1), rtmon-client(1), IRIXview(1)

.SH "NOTES"
Any program calling this function must be run as root or the permissions on
/usr/tmp/.rtmond_shm_file must be modified.
