'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3.sat_eventtostr
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} SAT_INTRP_PATHNAME 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} SAT_INTRP_PATHNAME 3 ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} SAT_INTRP_PATHNAME 3 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} SAT_INTRP_PATHNAME "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
.B sat_intrp_pathname
\- Portable interface to interpret sat_pathname structs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sat.h>
.HP 
.B int sat_intrp_pathname (char **buf,
.B struct sat_pathname *pn, char **reqname,
.B char **actname, mac_label **label,
.B int file_major, int file_minor);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sat_intrp_pathname
takes a pointer to a buffer
.RI ( buf )
containing the disk image of a
.B sat_pathname
structure.  It unpacks the variable length portions of the struct from
.I buf
and returns them in the specified arguments.
A pointer to the data following the pathname information is returned in
.IR buf .
.PP
The
.B sat_pathname
structure includes the following fields:
.PP
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 8n 25n
.nf
ino_t	sat_inode;	/* inode number of file */
dev_t	sat_device;	/* device no. of mounted file system */
uid_t	sat_fileown;	/* file owner */
gid_t	sat_filegrp;	/* file group */
mode_t	sat_filemode;	/* file mode, including file type */
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Additional data is appended to the struct in the disk format.  This
informtaion is returned in the arguments as follows:
.PP
.IP \f2reqname\f1 15
The pathname that the system call specified
.IP \f2actname\f1 15
The pathname that the the system actually looked up, including crossed
mount points, symbolic links, and multi-level directories.
.IP \f2label\f1 15
The security label of the file.  It is preferred, but not required, to
only specify this field if
.B sat_mac_enabled
is set in the file header.
.PP
If any of these fields are NULL, the related information will not be
returned.  If these fields are non-null (i.e. they represent the address
of a suitable pointer), sufficient storage will be allocated to hold the
values.  These fields should be freed (see
.BR free (3))
when they are no longer needed.
.PP
The file label is only available if 
.B sat_mac_enabled
is set in the
file header, otherwise this field will be NULL.  To avoid possible
problems if trailing data happens to resemble a
.BR mac_label ,
do not ask for the file label unless
.B sat_mac_enabled
is set in the file header.
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B sat_read_header_info
returns 0 on success or -1 if the
.B sat_pathname
struct is not valid.  In this case, an error message is displayed on stderr.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR free "(3C), " sat_read_file_info "(3), " sat_read_header_info (3).
