'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SIGWAIT 3 
.SH NAME
sigwait, sigwaitinfo, sigtimedwait \- wait for queued signals (\s-1POSIX\s+1)
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.B #include <sys/timers.h>
.PP
.B "int sigwait(const sigset_t *set, int *sig);
.B "int sigwaitinfo(const sigset_t *set, siginfo_t *value);
.B "int sigtimedwait(const sigset_t *set, siginfo_t *value, timespec_t *timeout);
.fi
.PP
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I sigwait()
function selects a pending signal from
.I set
and returns it in the storage pointed to by
.I sig.
If multiple signals from 
.I set
are pending, then the one with the lowest numerical value is selected.
If no signals in
.I set
are pending then the call will block until one becomes pending,
The signals defined by
.I set 
must be blocked at the time of the call to
.I sigwait()
in order to avoid conflicts with installed signal handlers.
If the signals in 
.I set
are not blocked then the system will either deliver the signal
asynchronously, or 
.I sigwait() 
will return with the signal. Users are advised to always block signals
in 
.I set
to get predictable results.
.sp
The
.I sigwaitinfo()
call behaves the same as the 
.I sigwait()
call if the
.I value
argument is NULL. If the
.I value
argument is non-NULL, the sigwaitinfo()
function behaves the same as
.I sigwait()
except the selected signal number is stored in the 
.I si_signo
member, and the cause of the signal is stored in the 
.I si_code
member. If any value was queued to the selected signal, 
the first such queued value is dequeued and
the value is stored in the 
.I si_value
member of
.I value.
The system resource used to queue the signal shall be released and made available to queue other signals. If no value is queued, the content of the
.I si_value
member is undefined. If no further signals are queued for the selected signal, the pending indication for that signal shall be reset.
.sp
The function
.I sigtimedwait()
behaves the same as
.I sigwaitinfo()
except that if none of the signals specified by 
.I set 
are pending, 
.I sigtimedwait()
shall wait for the time interval specified in the 
.I timespec
structure pointed to by
.I timeout.
If the
.I timespec
structure pointed to by
.I timeout
is zero-valued and if none of the signals specified by
.I set
are pending, then
.I sigtimedwait()
shall return immediately with an error. If 
.I timeout
is the NULL pointer, the behavior is the same as 
.I sigwaitinfo()
.sp
If any realtime signals (those in the range
.B SIGRTMIN
to
.BR SIGRTMAX )
are pending, the lowest numbered signal shall be returned.
The order in which realtime and nonrealtime signals are
returned is nondeterministic.
The order in which multiple nonrealtime signals are returned
is also nondeterministic.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4kill\fP(2),
\f4sigaction\fP(2),
\f4sigqueue\fP(3),
\f4signal\fP(5),
\f4pthread_sigmask\fP(3P).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.I sigwait()
returns a 0.  Otherwise, it returns an error number to indicate the error.
.sp
Upon successful completion,
.I sigwaitinfo()
and
.I sigtimedwait()
return the selected signal number.  Otherwise, they return a -1 and set
.I errno
to indicate the error number.
.sp
If any of the conditions below occur, the error number will take on the
corresponding value:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINTR]
The wait was interrupted by an unblocked, caught signal.
.P
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.I sigwait()
function shall return the corresponding value:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The
.I set
argument contains an invalid or unsupported signal number.
.P
If any of the following conditions occur, the 
.I sigtimedwait() 
function shall return -1 and set
.I errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EAGAIN]
No signal specified by set was delivered within the specified timeout period.
.TP 15
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The 
.I timeout
argument specified a
.I tv_nsec 
value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1 billion.
.SH "WARNING"
The \s-1POSIX\s+1 and System V signal facilities have different semantics.
Using both facilities in the same program is \f3strongly discouraged\fP
and will result in unpredictable behavior.

