.TH miser_jinfo 1
.SH NAME
miser_jinfo \- query miser about the schedule/description of a submitted job 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3miser_jinfo \f1 -j bid [-d] | -h
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I miser_jinfo
command is used to query the schedule/description of a job that has already 
been scheduled by 
.I miser(1)
If the specified job exists and 
.I miser(1) 
is running, 
.I miser_jinfo 
will return the schedule in the same format as 
.I miser_submit(1).
.SH DISPLAY
The format of the schedule returned by 
.I miser_jinfo 
is a table that lists:
.TP
.B JOBID
The batch ID is used by miser, various miser commands, and the kernel
to communicate about a specific job.  It is equivalent to the process
group id.
.TP
.B CPU
The number of CPUs allocated.
.TP
.B MEM
The amount of memory allocated shown in bytes, kilobytes(k), megabytes(m), 
or gigabytes(g).
.TP
.B DURATION
The duration or the total wall clock time is the product of the CPU time 
and the number of CPUs.  Not available with -d option.
.TP
.B START TIME
The starting time is when the job is going to get batch critical priority, 
if running opportunistically (NON-STATIC); or will start running if 
submitted as STATIC.
.TP
.B END TIME
The completion time is when Miser has scheduled the job to terminate. 
.TP
.B MLT
Multiple of CPUs allowed by the submitter for scheduling flexibility, if 
total cpus requested not available.  Not available with -d option.  See 
.I miser_submit(4)
for details.
.TP
.B PRI
The priority is a field provided for use by scheduling policies (to be 
implemented).  Not available with -d option.
.TP
.B OPT
The option field indicates STATIC (S) for STATIC submission, and/or kill 
(K) as exception handler flag.  Kill is the only exception handling 
provided today.  Not available with -d option.
.TP
.B USER
The username of the job's submitter/owner.  Available with -d option.
.TP
.B COMMAND
Shows the command for all active batch jobs.  Available with -d option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-j " bid "
The bid is the ID of the miser job and is the process group id of the job.  
For a more detailed discussion of the bid see 
.I miser_submit(1) 
and 
.I miser(1).
.TP
.BI \-d
Prints job description including job owner and command.  It replaces duration,
multiple, priority, and optional fields from the non '-d' output.
.TP
.BI \-h
Print the command's usage message.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
miser(1),
miser(4),
miser(5),
miser_kill(1),
miser_move(1),
miser_qinfo(1),
miser_reset(1),
miser_submit(1),
miser_submit(4).
