.TH miser_move 1
.SH NAME
miser_move \- move a block of resources from one queue to another 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B miser_move
.RB "\-s "srcq 
.RB "\-d "destq 
.RB "\-o "s="start",e="end",c="CPUs",m="mem
.P
.B miser_move 
.RB "\-s " srcq 
.RB "\-d " destq 
.RB "\-f " file 
.RB | " \-h 
.SH DESCRIPTION
 The 
.I miser_move 
command removes a tuple of space from the source queue's vector
and adds it to the destination queue's vector beginning at the start time and
ending at the end time.  The resources added or removed do not change
the vector definition and are, therefore, temporary. 
.P
The command returns a table that lists the start and end times
of each resource transfer and the amount of resources transfered.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-s " srcq " 
Srcq is the name of any valid miser queue. This queue
may be the system queue.
.TP
.BI \-d " destq"  
Destq is the name of any valid miser queue. This
queue may be the system queue.
.TP
.BI "\-o s="start",e="end",c="cpus",m="mem
This option specifies a block of resources to be moved.
The start and end times are relative
to the current time (for valid times, see 
.I miser_submit(1)).
The CPUs are an integer up to the maximum free CPUs associated with
a queue. The memory is an integer with an identifier (g, m, or k representing
gigabyte, megabyte, and kilobyte, respectively) to indicate the amount
of memory to be transfered. If no unit is provided with the memory field
then the memory value is assumed to be bytes.
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
.I File
contains a resource block specification (see
.I miser_move(4))
for a definition).
.TP
.BI \-h
Prints the command's usage message.
.SH BUGS
The transfer is temporary. If miser is killed or crashes
then the resources transfered are lost, and miser
will be unable to restart.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
miser(5),
miser(1),
miser_move(4),
miser_reset(1).
