.TH MISER 1
.SH NAME
miser \- Miser resource manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
miser
.RB [ -vd ]
.RB "-c " maxCPUs
.RB "-m " maxMemory
.RB "-f " configFile
| -C | -h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Miser 
starts the miser daemon.  Miser is a deterministic batch scheduling facility 
that can be used to balance batch and interactive cpu and memory usage.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-v
Verbose.  This option results in additional output.  It is useful in 
conjunction with the
.B -d
option to help in diagnosing Miser configuration problems.
.TP
-d
This option requests debug output.  Miser does not relinquish the terminal.  
With this option turned on output is directed to screen instead of system log.
.TP
.RB "-c " maxCPUs
This is the maximum number of CPUs that miser can use.  It is also the maximum  
number of CPUs that any resource segment of the system queue can reserve.
.TP
.RB "-m " maxMemory
This is the maximum amount of memory that miser can use.  It is also the 
maximum memory that any resource segment of the system queue can reserve.  
Memory reserved for miser is allocated from physical memory.  The amount of 
memory that miser use, should be less than the total physical memory leaving 
enough memory for kernel use.  Also, it is recommended that the system should 
have at least the amount of swap space as configured for miser, so that if 
miser memory is in full use, system will have enough swap space to move 
previous non miser submitted processes out of the way.
.TP
.RB "-f " configFile
This option specifies the location of the configuration file.
.TP
-C
This option can be used to release any miser reserved resources after miser 
daemon is killed and before it is restarted. 
.TP
-h
Print the command's usage message.
.SH OPERATION
The miser is a privileged command that starts the miser daemon.
Miser can be manually started from the command line with appropriate
options/config file(s).  
.P
It can also be conveniently started/stopped/cleaned up by using the 
/etc/init.d/miser script.  This script takes one of the following three 
parameters: {start|stop|cleanup}.
.TP
.RB /etc/init.d/miser " start"
Starts Miser daemon with the options and config file specified by the 
script.
.TP
.RB /etc/init.d/miser " stop"
Kills Miser daemon with -INT signal and calls Miser daemon with -C 
option to release reserved resources.
.TP
.RB /etc/init.d/miser " cleanup"
Call Miser daemon with -C option for releasing reserved resources.  
This can be useful if the Miser daemon is killed unintentionally.
.SH SEE ALSO
miser(5),
miser(4),
miser_submit(1),
miser_jinfo(1),
miser_kill(1),
miser_qinfo(1),
miser_move(1),
miser_reset(1),
syslogd(1M).
