.TH miser_qinfo 1
.SH NAME
miser_qinfo \- query information on miser queues, queue resource status, 
and list of jobs scheduled against a queue 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3miser_qinfo\f1 | -Q | -q qname [-j] | [-a] | -h
.\"\f3miser_qinfo\f1 | -Q | -q qname [-j] | [-a] | [-A] | -h"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I miser_qinfo
command is used to retrieve information about the free resources of a queue,
the names of all miser queues, and to query all jobs currently scheduled 
against a particular queue.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI \" \"
List all queues and their jobs and schedules.
.TP 
.BI \-Q
List all defined miser queues.
.TP
.BI \-q " qname " 
List current status of the queue specified including the free resources 
associated with qname.  A queue, as described in 
.I miser(1),
has a resource vector of time and space.  Each element of the vector 
represents a quantum of time that has an associated space against which a 
job can request resources.  The output of this option is a list of all the 
elements of the resource vector in tabular form.  At the top of the table 
is the name of the queue and the size of the quantum in seconds.  Each 
entry of the table either consists of a time/space tuple: START TIME, 
CPU, MEMORY, and END TIME.  This can be a slow and an expensive query 
and the response time is proportional to the the length of the queue.
.TP
.BI \-q " qname " \-j" 
List all submitted jobids in the queue.
.TP 
.BI \-a
List all queues and their jobs and schedules, ordered by job ID.  The 
job list produces a brief description of the job.  See 
.I miser_jinfo(1) 
for a description of the output fields.  This is the default option. 
.\".TP" 
.\".BI \-A"
.\"List current status of all defined miser queues."
.TP 
.BI \-h
Print the command's usage message.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The information returned is a snapshot of the current resources and may be 
inaccurate by the time the information is displayed.
.P
To access information about a particular queue, the user must have read 
access to the queue definition file (see 
.I miser(4)
for more information about queue definition files).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
miser(1),
miser(4),
miser(5),
miser_jinfo(1),
miser_kill(1),
miser_move(1),
miser_reset(1),
miser_submit(1).
