'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_getwstr @(#)curs_getwstr	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_getwstr	1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_getwstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_getwstr 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_getwstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_getwstr "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} curs_getwstr 3X "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_getwstr\f2: \f4getwstr\f1, \f4getnwstr\f1, \f4wgetwstr\f1, \f4wgetnwstr\f1, \f4mvgetwstr\f1, \f4mvgetnwstr\f1, \f4mvwgetwstr\f1, \f4mvwgetnwstr\f1 \- get \f4wchar_t\fP character strings from \f4curses\fP terminal keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
int getwstr(wchar_t *wstr);
.sp 0.5
int getnwstr(wchar_t *wstr, int n);
.sp 0.5
int wgetwstr(WINDOW *win, wchar_t *wstr);
.sp 0.5
int wgetnwstr(WINDOW *win, wchar_t *wstr, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvgetwstr(int y, int x, wchar_t *wstr);
.sp 0.5
int mvgetnwstr(int y, int x, wchar_t *wstr, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvwgetwstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, wchar_t *wstr);
.sp 0.5
int mvwgetnwstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, wchar_t *wstr, int n);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The effect of \f4getwstr\f1 is as though a series of calls to
\f4getwch\f1 were made, until a newline and carriage return is received.
The resulting value is placed in the area pointed to by
the \f4wchar_t\fP pointer \f2str\f1.
\f4getnwstr\f1 reads at most \f2n\f1 \f4wchar_t\fP characters,
thus preventing a possible overflow of the input buffer.
The user's erase and kill characters are interpreted, as well as any
special keys (such as function keys, ``home'' key, ``clear'' key,
etc.).
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion.
.SH NOTES
.P
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that all routines except \f4wgetnwstr\f1 may
be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_getwch\fP(3X).
.ad
