'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_inwch @(#)curs_inwch	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_iwnch 1.0; curs_inwch 1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_inwch 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_inwch 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_inwch 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_inwch "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} curs_inwch 3X "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_inwch\f2: \f4inwch\f1, \f4winwch\f1, \f4mvinwch\f1, \f4mvwinwch\f1 \- get a \f4wchar_t\fP character and its attributes from a \f4curses\fP window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
chtype inwch(void);
.sp 0.5
chtype winwch(WINDOW *win);
.sp 0.5
chtype mvinwch(int y, int x);
.sp 0.5
chtype mvwinwch(WINDOW *win, int y, int x);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return the \f4wchar_t\fP character, of type \f4chtype\f1,
at the current position in the named window.
If any attributes are set for that position, their values are OR-ed into
the value returned.
Constants defined in \f4<curses.h>\f1
can be used with the \f4&\f1 (logical AND)
operator to extract the character or attributes alone.
.SS Attributes
The following bit-masks may be AND-ed with characters returned by
\f4winwch\f1.
.P
.RS
.nf
.ta 1.25i
\f4A_CHARTEXT\fP	Bit-mask to extract character
\f4A_ATTRIBUTES\fP	Bit-mask to extract attributes
\f4A_COLOR\fP	Bit-mask to extract color-pair field information
.fi
.RE
.SH NOTES
.P
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that all of these routines may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X).
.ad
