'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_inwchstr @(#)curs_inwchs	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" The name of this file differs from the name of the manual page
.\" because SCCS does not accept file names longer than 12 characters.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_inwchstr 1.0; curs_inchstr 1.3"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_inwchstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_inwchstr 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_inwchstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_inwchstr "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} curs_inwchstr 3X "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_inwchstr\f2: \f4inwchstr\f1, \f4inwchnstr\f1, \f4winwchstr\f1, \f4winwchnstr\f1, \f4mvinwchstr\f1, \f4mvinwchnstr\f1, \f4mvwinwchstr\f1, \f4mvwinwchnstr\f1 \- get a string of \f4wchar_t\fP characters (and attributes) from a \f4curses\fP window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
int inwchstr(chtype *wchstr);
.sp 0.5
int inwchnstr(chtype *wchstr, int n);
.sp 0.5
int winwchstr(WINDOW *win, chtype *wchstr);
.sp 0.5
int winwchnstr(WINDOW *win, chtype *wchstr, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvinwchstr(int y, int x, chtype *wchstr);
.sp 0.5
int mvinwchnstr(int y, int x, chtype *wchstr, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvwinwchstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, chtype *wchstr);
.sp 0.5
int mvwinwchnstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, chtype *wchstr, int n);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return a string of type \f4chtype\f1, holding \f4wchar_t\fP
characters,
starting at the current cursor position in the named
window and ending at the right margin of the window.
The four functions with \f2n\f1 as the last argument, return the string
at most \f2n\f1 \f4wchar_t\fP characters long.
Constants defined in \f4<curses.h>\f1
can be used with the \f4&\fP (logical AND) operator to extract the
\f4wchar_t\fP character
or the attribute alone from any position in the \f2chstr\f1
[see \f4curs_inwch\fP(3X)].
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion.
.SH NOTES
.P
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that all routines except \f4winwchnstr\f1 may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_inwch\fP(3X).
.ad
