'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_touch @(#)curs_touch	40.5 of 4/10/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_touch	1.3"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_touch 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_touch 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_touch 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_touch "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_touch\f2: \f4 touchwin\f1, \f4touchline\f1, \f4untouchwin\f1, \f4wtouchln\f1, \f4is_linetouched\f1, \f4is_wintouched\f1 \- \f4curses\fP refresh control routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp .5
int touchwin(WINDOW *win);
.sp 0.25
int touchline(WINDOW *win, int start, int count);
.sp 0.25
int untouchwin(WINDOW *win);
.sp 0.25
.ig
.\" not in curses.h 1.45; notified ss 2/22/89
touchln(int y, int n, int changed);
.sp 0.25
..
int wtouchln(WINDOW *win, int y, int n, int changed);
.sp 0.25
int is_linetouched(WINDOW *win, int line);
.sp 0.25
int is_wintouched(WINDOW *win);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4touchwin\f1 and \f4touchline\f1 routines
throw away all optimization information about which parts of the window have
been touched,
by pretending that the entire window has been drawn on.
This is sometimes necessary when using overlapping windows,
since a change to
one window affects the other window,
but the records of which lines have been changed in
the other window do not reflect the change.
The routine
\f4touchline\f1 only pretends that \f2count\f1
lines have been changed,
beginning with line \f2start\f1.
.P
The \f4untouchwin\f1 routine marks all lines in the
window as unchanged since the last call to
\f4wrefresh\f1.
.P
.ig
.\" touchnl not in curses.h; ss notified 2/22/89
The \f4touchln\f1 and \f4wtouchln\f1 routines make \f2n\f1
..
The \f4wtouchln\f1 routine makes \f2n\f1
lines in the window,
starting at line \f2y\f1, look as if they have (\f2changed\f4=1\f1)
or have not (\f2changed\f4=0\f1)
been changed since the last call to \f4wrefresh\f1.
.P
The \f4is_linetouched\f1 and \f4is_wintouched\f1 routines
return \f4TRUE\f1 if the specified line/window was modified
since the last call to \f4wrefresh\f1;
otherwise they return \f4FALSE\f1.
In addition,
\f4is_linetouched\f1 returns \f4ERR\f1 if \f2line\f1 is not valid for
the given window.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion,
unless otherwise noted in the preceding routine descriptions.
.SH NOTES
.P
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that all routines except \f4wtouchln\fP may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_refresh\fP(3X).
.ad
