'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_inwstr @(#)curs_inwstr	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_inwstr	1.3"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_inwstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_inwstr 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_inwstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_inwstr "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} curs_inwstr 3X "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_inwstr\f2: \f4inwstr\f1, \f4innwstr\f1, \f4winwstr\f1, \f4winnwstr\f1, \f4mvinwstr\f1, \f4mvinnwstr\f1, \f4mvwinwstr\f1, \f4mvwinnwstr\f1 \- get a string of \f4wchar_t\fP characters from a \f4curses\fP window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
int inwstr(char *str);
.sp 0.5
int innwstr(char *str, int n);
.sp 0.5
int winwstr(WINDOW *win, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int winnwstr(WINDOW *win, char *str, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvinwstr(int y, int x, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int mvinnwstr(int y, int x, char *str, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvwinwstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int mvwinnwstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, char *str, int n);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return the string of \f4wchar_t\fP characters in \f2str\fP starting at the
current cursor position in the named window and ending at the right margin
of the window.
Attributes are stripped from the characters.
The four functions with \f2n\f1 as the last argument return the string at most
\f2n\f1 \f4wchar_t\fP characters long.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion.
.SH NOTES
.P
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that all routines except \f4winnwstr\f1 may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X).
.ad
