'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_bkgd @(#)curs_bkgd	40.5 of 4/10/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_bkgd	1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_bkgd 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_bkgd 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_bkgd 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_bkgd "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_bkgd\f2: \f4 bkgdset\f1, \f4wbkgdset\f1, \f4bkgd\f1, \f4wbkgd\f1 \- \f4curses\fP window background manipulation routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
void bkgdset(chtype ch);
.sp 0.5
void wbkgdset(WINDOW *win, chtype ch);
.sp 0.5
int bkgd(chtype ch);
.sp 0.5
int wbkgd(WINDOW *win, chtype ch);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4bkgdset\f1 and \f4wbkgdset\f1 routines manipulate
the background of the named window.
Background is a \f4chtype\f1 consisting of any combination of
attributes and a character.
The attribute part of the background
is combined (ORed) with all non-blank characters that are
written into the window  with \f4waddch\f1.
Both the character and attribute parts of the background are combined with the
blank characters.
The background becomes a property of the character
and moves with the character through any scrolling and insert/delete
line/character operations.
To the extent possible on a particular
terminal, the attribute part of the background is displayed as
the graphic rendition of the character put on the screen.
.P
The \f4bkgd\f1 and \f4wbkgd\f1 routines combine the new background
with every position in the window.
Background is any combination of 
attributes and a character.
Only the attribute part is used to set
the background of non-blank characters, 
while both character and attributes
are used for blank positions.
To the extent possible on a particular
terminal, the attribute part of the background is displayed as
the graphic rendition of the character put on the screen.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\f4bkgd\fP and \f4wbkgd\fP return the integer \f4OK\f1, or a
non-negative integer, if \f4immedok\fP is set.
.SH NOTES
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that \f4bkgdset\f1 and \f4bkgd\f1 may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_addch\fP(3X),
\f4curs_outopts\fP(3X)
