'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_addstr @(#)curs_addstr	41.2 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_addstr	1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_addstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_addstr 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_addstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_addstr "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_addstr\f2: \f4 addstr\f1, \f4addnstr\f1, \f4waddstr\f1, \f4waddnstr\f1, \f4mvaddstr\f1, \f4mvaddnstr\f1, \f4mvwaddstr\f1, \f4mvwaddnstr\f1 \- add a string of characters to a \f4curses\fP window and advance cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
int addstr(char *str);
.sp 0.5
int addnstr(char *str, int n);
.sp 0.5
int waddstr(WINDOW *win, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int waddnstr(WINDOW *win, char *str, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvaddstr(y, int x, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int mvaddnstr(y, int x, char *str, int n);
.sp 0.5
int mvwaddstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int mvwaddnstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, char *str,
	int n);
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
All of these routines write all the characters of the
null-terminated character string \f2str\f1 on the given window.
The effect is similar to calling
\f4waddch\f1
once for each character in the string.
The four routines with \f2n\f1 as the last
argument write at most \f2n\f1 characters.
If \f2n\f1 is negative,
then the entire string will be added.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion.
.SH NOTES
.P
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that all of these routines except \f4waddstr\f1
and \f4waddnstr\f1 may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_addch\fP(3X).
