'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_getstr @(#)curs_getstr	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_getstr	1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_getstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_getstr 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_getstr 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_getstr "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_getstr\f2: \f4 getstr\f1, \f4wgetstr\f1, \f4mvgetstr\f1, \f4mvwgetstr\f1, \f4wgetnstr\f1 \- get character strings from \f4curses\fP terminal keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
int getstr(char *str);
.sp 0.5
int wgetstr(WINDOW *win, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int mvgetstr(int y, int x, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int mvwgetstr(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, char *str);
.sp 0.5
int wgetnstr(WINDOW *win, char *str, int n);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The effect of \f4getstr\f1 is as though a series of calls to
\f4getch\f1 were made, until a newline and carriage return is received.
The resulting value is placed in the area pointed to by
the character pointer \f2str\f1.
\f4wgetnstr\f1 reads at most \f2n\f1 characters,
thus preventing a possible overflow of the input buffer.
The user's erase and kill characters are interpreted, as well as any
special keys (such as function keys, ``home'' key, ``clear'' key,
and so on).
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion.
.SH NOTES
The header file \f4curses.h\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4stdio.h\f1 and \f4unctrl.h\f1.
.PP
Note that \f4getstr\f1, \f4mvgetstr\f1, and \f4mvwgetstr\f1 may
be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_getch\fP(3X)
.ad
