'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_inswch @(#)curs_inswch	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_inswch 1.0; curs_insch 1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_inswch 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_inswch 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_inswch 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_inswch "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} curs_inswch 3X "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_inswch\f2: \f4inswch\f1, \f4winswch\f1, \f4mvinswch\f1, \f4mvwinswch\f1 \- insert a \f4wchar_t\fP character before the character under the cursor in a \f4curses\fP window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
int inswch(chtype wch);
.sp 0.5
int winswch(WINDOW *win, chtype wch);
.sp 0.5
int mvinswch(int y, int x, chtype wch);
.sp 0.5
int mvwinswch(WINDOW *win, int y, int x, chtype wch);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines insert
the character \f2wch\f1, holding a \f4wchar_t\fP character,
before the character under the cursor.
All characters to the right of the cursor are moved one space to the right,
with the possibility of the rightmost character on the line being lost.
The cursor position does not change
(after moving to \f2y\f1, \f2x\f1, if specified).
(This does not imply use of the hardware insert character feature.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion.
.SH NOTES
.P
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that \f4inswch\f1, \f4mvinswch\f1,
and \f4mvwinswch\f1 may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X).
.ad
