'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_border @(#)curs_border	40.6 of 5/21/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_border	1.4"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_border 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_border 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_border 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_border "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_border\f2: \f4 border\f1, \f4wborder\f1, \f4box\f1, \f4hline\f1, \f4whline\f1, \f4vline\f1, \f4wvline\f1 \- create \f4curses\fP borders, horizontal and vertical lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta .25i
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp .5
int border(chtype ls, chtype rs, chtype ts, chtype bs,
	chtype tl, chtype tr, chtype bl, chtype br);
.sp 0.25
int wborder(WINDOW *win, chtype ls, chtype rs,
	chtype ts, chtype bs, chtype tl, chtype tr,
	chtype bl, chtype br);
.sp 0.25
int box(WINDOW *win, chtype verch, chtype horch);
.sp 0.25
int hline(chtype ch, int n);
.sp 0.25
int whline(WINDOW *win, chtype ch, int n);
.sp 0.25
int vline(chtype ch, int n);
.sp 0.25
int wvline(WINDOW *win, chtype ch, int n);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
With the \f4border\f1,
\f4wborder\f1 and
\f4box\f1 routines,
a border is drawn around the edges of the window.
The argument
\f2ls\f1 is a
character and attributes used for the left side of the border,
\f2rs\f1 - right side, \f2ts\f1 - top side, \f2bs\f1 - bottom side,
\f2tl\f1 - top left-hand corner, \f2tr\f1 - top right-hand corner,
\f2bl\f1 - bottom left-hand corner, and \f2br\f1 - bottom right-hand corner.
If any of these arguments is zero, then the following default values
(defined in \f4curses.h\f1)
are used instead: \f4ACS_VLINE, ACS_VLINE, ACS_HLINE, ACS_HLINE,
ACS_ULCORNER, ACS_URCORNER, ACS_BLCORNER, ACS_BRCORNER.
.P
\f4box(\f2win\f4, \f2verch\f4, \f2horch\f4)\f1 is a shorthand for the following call:
\f4wborder(\f2win\f4, \f2verch\f4, \f2verch\f4, \f2horch\f4, \f2horch\f4, 0, 0, 0, 0)\f1.
.P
\f4hline\fP and \f4whline\fP draw a horizontal (left to right) line
using \f2ch\f1 starting at the current cursor position in the window.
The current cursor position is not changed.
The line is at most \f2n\f1 characters long, or as many as fit into the window.
.P
\f4vline\fP and \f4wvline\fP draw a vertical (top to bottom) line
using \f2ch\f1 starting at the current cursor position in the window.
The current cursor position is not changed.
The line is at most \f2n\f1 characters long, or as many as fit into the window.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4OK\f1, or a non-negative integer
if \f4immedok\fP is set.
.SH NOTES
The header file \f4curses.h\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4stdio.h\f1 and \f4unctrl.h\f1.
.PP
Note that \f4border\f1 and \f4box\f1 may be macros.
.br
.ne4
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_outopts\fP(3X).
