'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_clear @(#)curs_clear	40.5 of 4/10/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_clear	1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_clear 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_clear 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_clear 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_clear "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_clear\f2: \f4 erase\f1, \f4werase\f1, \f4clear\f1, \f4wclear\f1, \f4clrtobot\f1, \f4wclrtobot\f1, \f4clrtoeol\f1, \f4wclrtoeol\f1 \- clear all or part of a \f4curses\fP window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
# include <curses.h>
.sp
int erase(void);
.sp 0.5
int werase(WINDOW *win);
.sp 0.5
int clear(void);
.sp 0.5
int wclear(WINDOW *win);
.sp 0.5
int clrtobot(void);
.sp 0.5
int wclrtobot(WINDOW *win);
.sp 0.5
int clrtoeol(void);
.sp 0.5
int wclrtoeol(WINDOW *win);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4erase\f1 and \f4werase\f1 routines copy
blanks to every position in the window.
.P
The \f4clear\f1 and \f4wclear\f1 routines are like
\f4erase\f1 and \f4werase\f1,
but they also call \f4clearok\f1,
so that the screen is cleared completely on the next call to
\f4wrefresh\f1
for that window and repainted from scratch.
.P
The \f4clrtobot\f1 and \f4wclrtobot\f1 routines
erase all lines below the cursor in the window.
Also, the current line to the right of the cursor,
inclusive, is erased.
.P
The \f4clrtoeol\f1 and \f4wclrtoeol\f1 routines
erase the current line to the right of the cursor, inclusive.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4OK\f1, or a non-negative integer
if \f4immedok\fP is set.
.SH NOTES
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that \f4erase\f1, \f4werase\fP, \f4clear\f1,
\f4wclear\fP, \f4clrtobot\f1, and \f4clrtoeol\f1 may be macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X),
\f4curs_outopts\fP(3X),
\f4curs_refresh\fP(3X)
.ad
