'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3x.curs_delln @(#)curs_delln	40.6 of 4/10/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" ident	"@(#)svid_ti:ti_lib/curs_delln	1.2"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} curs_deleteln 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} curs_deleteln 3X ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} curs_deleteln 3X "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} curs_deleteln "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4curs_deleteln\f2: \f4 deleteln\f1, \f4wdeleteln\f1, \f4insdelln\f1, \%\f4winsdelln\f1, \f4insertln\f1, \%\f4winsertln\f1 \- delete and insert lines in a \f4curses\fP window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <curses.h>
.sp
int deleteln(void);
.sp 0.5
int wdeleteln(WINDOW *win);
.sp .5
int insdelln(int n);
.sp 0.5
int winsdelln(WINDOW *win, int n);
.sp 0.5
int insertln(void);
.sp 0.5
int winsertln(WINDOW *win);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
With the \f4deleteln\f1 and \f4wdeleteln\f1 routines,
the line under the cursor in the window is deleted;
all lines below the current line are moved up one line.
The bottom line of the window is cleared.
The cursor position does not change.
(This does not imply use of a hardware delete line feature.)
.P
With the 
\f4insdelln\f1 and
\f4winsdelln\f1 routines,
for positive \f2n\f1, insert \f2n\f1 lines into the specified window
above the current line.
The \f2n\f1 bottom lines are lost.
For negative
\f2n\f1, delete \f2n\f1 lines (starting with the one under the cursor),
and move the remaining lines up.
The bottom \f2n\f1 lines are
cleared.
The current cursor position remains the same.
.P
With the \f4insertln\f1 and \f4insertln\f1 routines,
a blank line is inserted above the current line and the
bottom line is lost.
(This does not imply use of a hardware insert line feature.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
All routines return the integer \f4ERR\f1 upon
failure and an integer value other than \f4ERR\f1
upon successful completion.
.SH NOTES
The header file \f4<curses.h>\f1 automatically includes the header files
\f4<stdio.h>\f1 and \f4<unctrl.h>\f1.
.PP
Note that all but \f4winsdelln\f1 may be a macros.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4curses\fP(3X)
.ad
