'\"!tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH dpipe_fspe_get_hdl 3X
.SH NAME
dpipe_fspe_get_hdl,
dpipe_fspe_set_ctx\- file system data pipe operations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <dpipe.h>\f1
.PP
\f4dpipe_lib_hdl_t dpipe_fspe_get_hdl(int fd);\f1
.PP
\f4int dpipe_fspe_set_ctx(dpipe_lib_hdl_t hdl, dpipe_fspe_ctx_t ctx);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
These two functions will prepare a regular file specified by 
.I fd 
for data transfer in a data pipe.
.B dpipe_fspe_get_hdl
takes a file descriptor 
.I fd 
as the argument and returns a handle for this fd. It is an opaque
pointer and is referenced by 
.B dpipe_fspe_set_ctx
and 
.B dpipeTransfer.
.PP
.B dpipe_fspe_set_ctx
takes the opague handle
.I hdl
derived from
.B dpipe_fspe_get_hdl
and
.I ctx
to set the context for a transfer. The data structure
.B dpipe_fspe_ctx_t
has the following members: a scatter gather list
.I iov
, and the number of entries in the scatter gather list
.I iovcnt.
The scatter gather list is an array of data structure
.B struct dpipe_fspe_bind_list
which has the following members:
.P
.RS 5
.nf
.ta 20n 20n
off_t        offset;      /* offset in the file */
__int64_t    size;        /* size of transfer from the above offset */
.fi
.RE
.P
A context of a handler is effective until another context (another 
scatter gather list) is set on this handler. 
.B dpipeTransfer
will take the most recent context and transfer the data accordingly.
An ongoing transfer will not be affected by a new context set after
.B dpipeTransfer
is called.
.P
If the file descriptor was set O_DIRECT through 
.B open
or FDIRECT through
.B fcntl
, each offset and size value in the 
scatter gather list must meet the requirements of direct IO transfer. 
A transfer will not complete succesfully if the requirments are not met.
When a request of priority bandwidth
allocation is made on the data pipe in which the file descriptor is a
pipe end, it also must meet all the requirements described in prio(5).
.SH PERFORMANCE NOTE
To get the best performance, it is encouraged that the scatter gather 
list should meet the above requirements even if
no direct IO flag is set or no bandwidth allocation is requested.
.SH SEE ALSO
datapipe(3x)
