'\"!tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH grio_associate_file 3X
.SH NAME
grio_associate_file \- associate a grio stream id with a specific file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <grio.h>
\f3int grio_associate_file( int fd, stream_id_t *stream_id);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I grio_associate_file
marks the file indicated by \f3fd\f1 so that when the current process 
accesses the file it will receive the I/O at the rate guaranteed by the grio
stream \f3stream_id\f1.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A zero will be returned if the stream id is successfully associated with
the file. On failure, -1 will be returned and errno will be set 
to the following:
.TP 15
\f4EIO\fP
the \f3fd\f1 or \f3stream_id\f1 is invalid
.TP 15
\f4EPERM\fP
the characteristics of the \f3stream_id\f1 prevent the transfer.
This error is returned for any one of the following conditions.
The rate guarantee was created with the \f3PER_FILE_GUAR\f1 flag set, 
and the user is attempting to transfer the guarantee to a different file.
The rate guarantee was created with the \f3PROC_PRIVATE_GUAR\f1 flag set,
and the current user is not the creator of the guarantee. 
The filesystem where the file resides is different from the one on which
the rate guarantee was created.
.TP 15
\f4EPERM\fP
The requesting proocess is not priviledged enough to use grio. For
this, the process needs CAP_DEVICE_MGMT or has to have root permissions.
.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/grio_disks
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ggd(1M),
grio_query_fs(3X),
grio_action_list(3X),
grio_reserve_file(3X),
grio_reserve_fs(3X),
grio_unreserve_bw(3X),
grio_disk(4),
grio(5)
