'\"!tbl|mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH grio_action_list 3X
.SH NAME
grio_action_list \- atomically execute a list of bandwidth reserve/unreserve
actions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/grio.h>
.B int grio_action_list( int num, grio_resv_t *grior_list);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I grio_action_list
tries to 
.I atomically
execute a list of bandwidth reserve/unreserve actions as specified in
.I grior_list.
.I num
is the total number of actions in the list. The actions are considered to be
atomic in the sense that all the actions in the list are executed together.
No other action can interfere with the actions in the list once the first
action in the list has been initiated.
.PP
The contents of the list of structures pointed to by 
.I grior_list
includes the following members:
.TP
.B gr_action
The type of action. Currently supported types are:
.RS
.TP 20
.B GRIO_RESV_ACTION
This is a reservation request.
.TP 20
.B GRIO_UNRESV_ACTION
This is an unreserve action.
.RE
.TP
.B gr_start
Start time of the guarantee in seconds since January 1, 1970.
.TP
.B gr_duration
Duration of the guarantee in seconds.
.TP
.B gr_optime
The length of the rate guarantee time quantum in microseconds. 
.TP
.B gr_opsize
The amount of data guaranteed to be read/written within the time quantum.
.TP
.B gr_stream_id
This is the \f3stream identifier\f1 returned by the routine when a 
rate guarantee has been established.
.TP
.B gr_flags
The flags in this field determine the characteristics of the rate guarantee.
The following flags are defined:
.RS
.TP 20
.B PROC_PRIVATE_GUAR
Only the calling process can use the rate guarantee. If cannot be
transferred to other processes.
.TP
.B PROC_SHARE_GUAR
The rate guarantee can be transferred to other processes.
.TP
.B FIXED_ROTOR_GUAR
Obtain a "rotor" type of guarantee and do not allow the rotoration slot
to change once it has been established. (this is also known as a
VOD reservation)
.TP
.B SLIP_ROTOR_GUAR
This is the same type of rate guarantee as \f3FIXED_ROTOR_GUAR\f1 except
that the system will allow the process's rotation slot to change if necessary.
.TP
.B NON_ROTOR_GUAR
Obtain an ordinary type of rate guarantee (non-rotor).
.TP
.B REALTIME_SCHED_GUAR
Use realtime scheduling to satisfiy the rate guarantee. The process will
be suspended if it tries to perform I/O at a rate greater than its guarantee.
.TP
.B NON_SCHED_GUAR
Do not enforce the I/O rate scheduling. It is assumed that the calling
process will regulate the rate at which I/O requests are issued.
.TP
.B PER_FILE_GUAR
This is a per file guarantee. The gr_fd field of the gr_object_u union is
interpreted.
.TP
.B PER_FILE_SYS_GUAR
This is a file system guarantee. This is meaningful only for the XFS file
system.
.RE
.TP
.B gr_fsid
The dev_t for the file system being reserved. Applies only for file system
reservations.
.TP
.B gr_fid
The file descriptor which is being reserved.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On success, a zero is returned which indicates that all the sub-commands
completed without errors.

On failure a -1 is returned. Failure could be because of various reasons:
If errno is set to EINVAL, this indicates that one of the parameters
passed in to grio_action_list is invalid.
If errno indicates no error, but grio_action_list returns -1, this means
that execution of one of the sub-commands failed.
The
.B gr_error
field of the relevant
.I grio_resv_t
structures is set to indicate the error.
The following error codes are defined:
.TP 10
[EIO]
The calling process could not communicate with the \f3ggd\f1 daemon.
.TP 10
[EBADF]
The specified file does not exist or already has a rate guarantee
from this process.
.TP 10
[EIO]
The specified start time is invalid, or there is an invalid set of flags
specified in the \f3gr_flags\f1 field.
.TP 10
[ENOSPC]
The requested bandwidth could not be guaranteed. Upon return the
\f3gr_opsize\f1 and \f3gr_optime\f1 fields describe the
maximum bandwidth left for reservation. The \f3gr_errordev\f1 field
contains the name of the device where the bandwidth was not available.
.TP 10
[ENOENT]
The specified file does not contain any extents. It is empty.
.TP 10
[EPERM]
The process does not have root permissions or CAP_DEVICE_MGMT privilege.
.TP 10
[EACCESS]
All the disks in the xlv comprising the file system do not have the same
iosize, or the iosize of one or more disks was invalid.

.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/grio_disks
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ggd(1M),
grio_associate_file(3X),
grio_query_fs(3X),
grio_remove_request(3X),
grio_reserve_fs(3X),
grio_unreserve_bw(3X),
grio_disk(4),
grio(5)
