'\"macro stdmacro
.TH pthread_mutexattr_settype 3P
.SH NAME
pthread_mutexattr_settype, pthread_mutexattr_gettype \-
set/get a mutex attribute object's type
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <pthread.h>
.HP
.ft 3
int pthread_mutexattr_settype(pthread_mutexattr_t \(**attr, int type);
.HP
.ft 3
int pthread_mutexattr_gettype(pthread_mutexattr_t \(**attr, int \(**type);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions manipulate a mutex attribute object referenced by
.I attr
which has been previously created by
.IR pthread_mutexattr_init ().
.LP
The function
.IR pthread_mutexattr_settype ()
defines the type of mutex.
The
.I type
value may be one of
.BR PTHREAD_MUTEX_NORMAL ,
.BR PTHREAD_MUTEX_ERRORCHECK ,
.BR PTHREAD_MUTEX_RECURSIVE ,
or
.BR PTHREAD_MUTEX_DEFAULT .
.LP
The function
.IR pthread_mutexattr_gettype ()
stores into the memory referenced by
.I type
the mutex type associated with the named
mutex attribute object.
The default type is
.BR PTHREAD_MUTEX_DEFAULT .
.LP
A mutex with a type attribute of
.B PTHREAD_MUTEX_DEFAULT
or
.B PTHREAD_MUTEX_NORMAL
works as a simple mutual exclusion lock with no error checking.
A thread attempting to relock a mutex of this type will deadlock.
.LP
A mutex with a type attribute of
.B PTHREAD_MUTEX_ERRORCHECK
is a simple mutual exclusion lock with error checking.
A thread attempting to relock a mutex of this type will return
an error.
A thread attempting to unlock a mutex that another thread has
locked will return an error.
A thread attempting to unlock a mutex that has not been locked
will return an error.
.LP
A mutex with a type attribute of
.B PTHREAD_MUTEX_RECURSIVE
is a simple mutual exclusion lock with error checking that also
allows a single thread to recursively lock the mutex.
In this case there must be a matching number of unlocks by the
thread before the mutex can be released.
A thread attempting to unlock a mutex that another thread has
locked will return an error.
A thread attempting to unlock a mutex that has not been locked
will return an error.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The mutex attribute type functions return zero on success;
otherwise, an error number is returned:
.TP 15
.B [EINVAL]
The value specified by
.I type
is invalid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pthread_mutex_lock(3P),
pthread_mutexattr_init(3P).
