'\"macro stdmacro
.TH pthread_mutexattr_setpshared 3P
.SH NAME
pthread_mutexattr_setpshared, pthread_mutexattr_getpshared \-
set and get mutex process-shared attribute
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <pthread.h>
.HP
.ft 3
int pthread_mutexattr_setpshared(pthread_mutexattr_t \(**attr,
.br
int pshared);
.HP
.ft 3
int pthread_mutexattr_getpshared(const pthread_mutexattr_t \(**attr,
.br
int \(**opshared);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR pthread_mutexattr_getpshared ()
function obtains the value of the
.I process-shared
attribute from the attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
The
.IR pthread_mutexattr_setpshared ()
function is used to set the
.I process-shared
attribute in an initialized attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
.PP
The
.I process-shared
attribute is set to
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
to permit a mutex to be operated upon by any thread that has
access to the memory where the mutex is allocated, even if
the mutex is allocated in memory that is shared by multiple
processes.
If the
.I process-shared
attribute is
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE ,
the mutex will only be operated upon by threads created within
the same process as the thread that initialized the mutex; if
threads of differing processes attempt to operate on such a
mutex, the behavior is undefined.
The default value of the attribute is
.BR PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE .
.PP
Note that the
.I process-shared
attribute cannot be set to
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
if the attributes specify the
.I "priority inheritance"
protocol (see
.IR pthread_mutexattr_setprotocol (3P)).
.\"
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion,
.IR pthread_mutexattr_setpshared ()
returns zero.
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.IR pthread_mutexattr_getpshared ()
returns zero and returns the value of the
.I process-shared
attribute of
.I attr
via the
.I opshared
parameter.
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.TP 15
.B [EINVAL]
The new value specified for the attribute is outside the range
of legal values for that attribute. 
.TP 15
.B [EINVAL]
The value of
.I pshared
is
.B PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
and the
.I protocol
for the mutex attribute object has the value
.BR PTHREAD_PRIO_INHERIT .
.PP
These functions will not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pthread_create(3P),
pthread_mutex_init(3P),
pthread_mutex_lock(3P),
pthread_mutexattr_init(3P),
pthread_cond_init(3P).
