'\"macro stdmacro
.TH USCLOSEPOLLSEMA 3P
.SH NAME
usclosepollsema \- detach a file descriptor from a pollable semaphore
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ulocks.h>
.PP
.B "int usclosepollsema (usema_t \(**sema);"
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ulocks.h>
.PP
.B integer*4 function usclosepollsema (sema)
.br
.B TYPE sema
.br
.in +1i
where
.B TYPE
is
.B "integer*4"
in 32 bit mode, and is
.B "integer*8"
in 64 bit mode.
.in -1i
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I usclosepollsema\^
detaches the file descriptor associated with
.IR sema .
In addition to closing the caller's file descriptor, it invalidates and closes
any file descriptors used by other processes using the same semaphore and
in the same share group as the caller (assuming of course that the share
group is sharing file descriptors).
.PP
.I usclosepollsema\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 17
.SM
\%[EBADF]
The file descriptor for the semaphore has somehow been already
invalidated.
This implies a corruption of the semaphore data structure.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The caller isn't a registered member of the arena that
.I sema
was allocated from.
.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(2),
open(2),
sproc(2),
amalloc(3P),
usopenpollsema(3P),
usconfig(3P),
uscpsema(3P),
usctlsema(3P), 
usdumpsema(3P),
usfreesema(3P),
usfreepollsema(3P),
usinit(3P),
usnewsema(3P),
usnewpollsema(3P),
uspsema(3P),
usvsema(3P),
usema(7M).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, 0
is returned. Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
