'\"macro stdmacro
.TH USOPENPOLLSEMA 3P
.SH NAME
usopenpollsema \- attach a file descriptor to a pollable semaphore
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ulocks.h>
.PP
.B "int usopenpollsema (usema_t \(**sema, mode_t acc);"
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ulocks.h>
.PP
.B integer*4 function usopenpollsema (sema, acc)
.br
.B integer*4 acc
.br
.B TYPE sema
.br
.in +1i
where
.B TYPE
is
.B "integer*4"
in 32 bit mode, and is
.B "integer*8"
in 64 bit mode.
.in -1i
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I usopenpollsema\^
attaches a file descriptor to a pollable semaphore.
The returned file descriptor is used when calling
.IR poll (2)
or
.IR select (2)
to acquire the semaphore after an unsuccessful
.IR uspsema (3P).
.PP
If the caller is the first process to call
.I usopenpollsema
on
.I sema
then a new semaphore device is allocated (see
.IR usema (7M)).
The user and group id of the semaphore device take on the effective
user/group id of the caller.
The access mode is set to
.IR acc (see
.IR chmod (2)).
Calls to
.I usopenpollsema
on the same semaphore
by other processes simply attach to the previously allocated device.
They must pass standard Unix file permission tests to be allowed to
attach.
.PP
All processes sharing a pollable semaphore, related and unrelated alike,
must call
.IR usopenpollsema
before performing any semaphore operation on \f2sema\fP.
.PP
Forked children must perform their own
.IR usopenpollsema ,
as the file descriptor inherited from the parent through the
.IR fork (2)
will not be usable.
.PP
A process requires the file descriptor to call
.I usvsema
even if it never calls
.IR uspsema .
.PP
.I usopenpollsema\^
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 14
.SM
\%[EACCES]
The caller does not have the required permission to open
one or both of the two semaphore device files,
.B /dev/usema
and
.BR /dev/usemaclone .
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
The caller is attempting to attach to a previously allocated semaphore
device and does not have the requisite permissions.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOSPC]
There are no more selectable semaphores available in the system.
This is configurable up to 255.
See
.BR /var/sysgen/master.d/usema .
.TP
.SM
\%[EMFILE]
The system imposed limit for open file descriptors per process
.SM
.I {OPEN_MAX}
has already been reached.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENFILE]
The system file table has exceeded
.SM
.I {NFILE_MAX}
concurrently open files.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENXIO]
One or both of the two semaphore device files,
.B /dev/usema
and
.BR /dev/usemaclone ,
do not exist, or the device is not configured into the system.
.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(2),
open(2),
amalloc(3P),
usclosepollsema(3P),
usconfig(3P),
uscpsema(3P),
usctlsema(3P), 
usdumpsema(3P),
usfreesema(3P),
usfreepollsema(3P),
usinit(3P),
usnewsema(3P),
usnewpollsema(3P),
uspsema(3P),
usvsema(3P),
usema(7M).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a file descriptor
is returned. Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
