'\"!  tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.ABIinfo @(#)ABIinfo	1.1 of 6/02/96
.\" Copyright 1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ABIinfo 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ABIinfo 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ABIinfo 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ABIinfo "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4ABIinfo\f1 \- query system environment for features
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <ABIinfo.h>
.sp .5
int ABIinfo(int selector);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp .5
\f4ABIinfo\f1 queries whether a particular MIPS ABI feature indicated by 
selector is available on the target system, and if so, which version. A 
return value of \f4-1\f1 indicates that the feature represented by the 
selector is not present. A valid return value indicates that the feature is 
present, and the value indicates the version of 
.I MIPS Processor ABI Conformance Guide 
in which that version of the feature is documented. The return values and 
their meanings are listed in the \f4ABIinfo\f1 selector table 
(see \f4ABIinfo Selector Table\f1 below).
.sp
This interface allows a feature which will appear in a future 
.I Conformance Guide
to be supported by the host operating system prior to that system becoming 
conformant with that 
.I Conformance Guide .
It also allows applications to determine whether features which are 
documented in the 
.I Conformance Guide ,
but are not mandatory features, are implemented on a particular host 
operating system.
.sp
This interface also allows, via the 
.B ABIinfo_BlackBook
selector, querying which version of the 
.I Conformance Guide
this system conforms to.
.PP
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l l
l l l l .
SELECTOR@FEATURE DESCRIPTION@RETURN@CONF.
@Version Number of@VALUE@GUIDE
@Conformance Guide@@VERSION
_
\f4ABIinfo_BlackBook\f1@Supported on this System@0x010000@1.0
@@0x010200@1.2
@@0x020000@2.0
@@0x030000@3.0
\f4ABIinfo_mpconf\f1@Documenting version of@@
@\f4mpconf\f1 supported@0x020000@2.0
\f4ABIinfo_abicc\f1@Documenting version of@@
@\f4abicc\f1 supported@0x020000@2.0
\f4ABIinfo_XPG\f1@Documenting version of@@
@\f4XPG\f1 interfaces supported@0x020000@2.0
\f4ABIinfo_backtrace\f1@Documenting version of@@
@stack backtracing supported@0x020000@2.0
\f4ABIinfo_largefile\f1@Documenting version of@@
@large file interfaces@0x020000@2.0
@supported@@
\f4ABIinfo_longlong\f1@Documenting version of@@
@of 64-bit integral@0x020000@2.0
@datatype supported@@
\f4ABIinfo_X11\f1@Documenting \f4X11\f1 version@@
@supported@0x020000@2.0
\f4ABIinfo_mmap\f1@Documenting version of@@
@\f4mmap\f1 supported@0x020000@2.0
.TE
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4ABIinfo\fP(1), \f4<ABIinfo.h>\fP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The \f4ABIinfo\f1 routine will return \f4-1\f1 and set \f2errno\f1 
appropriately if the following is true:
.sp
.in+0.5i
EINVAL Invalid argument. The passed \f2selector\f1 does not correspond to a 
supported feature.
.in-0.5i
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.ft 4
/* This example routine queries the system as to whether Stack
 * Backtracing as specified in Conformance Guide 2.0 is supported.
 * it returns 1 if so, otherwise 0.
 */
#include <ABIinfo.h>
.sp
int
backtrace_supported()
{
.in+0.5i
int info;
.sp
info = ABIinfo (ABIinfo_backtrace);
.sp
/* If selector not supported, then must be a pre-2.0
 * platform and so backtrace not supported. Also not
 * supported if return value indicates earlier than 2.0
 */
if (info == -1 || info < ConformanceGuide_20)
.in+0.5i
return 0;
.in-0.5i
else
.in+0.5i
return 1;
.in-0.5i
.in-0.5i
}
.ft 1
.fi
.ad
