'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.addsev @(#)addsev	41.6 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} addsev 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} addsev 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} addsev 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} addsev "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4addsev\fP \- define additional severities
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4int addsev(int \f2int_val\fP, const char \(**\f2string\f1);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function \f4addsev\f1 defines additional severities for use in
subsequent calls to \f4pfmt\f1 or \f4lfmt\f1.
\f4addsev\f1 associates an integer value \f2int_val\f1
in the range [5-255] with
a character \f2string\f1.
It overwrites any previous string association
between \f2int_val\f1 and \f2string\f1.
.P
If \f2int_val\f1 is \s-1OR\s+1ed with
the \f2flags\f1 passed to subsequent calls
to \f4pfmt\f1
or \f4lfmt\f1, \f2string\f1 will be used as the severity.
.P
Passing a \s-1N.ULL\s+1 \f2string\f1 removes the severity.
.P
Add-on severities are only effective within the applications defining them.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
\f4#define Panic     5
setlabel("APPL");
setcat("my_appl");
addsev(Panic, gettxt(":26", "PANIC"));
/\(** ... \(**/
lfmt(stderr, MM_SOFT|MM_APPL| Panic, " :12:Cannot locate database\\n");\fP
.sp
.fi 
will display the message to \f2stderr\f1 and forward to the logging service:
.nf
	\f4APPL: PANIC: Cannot locate database\fP
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4gettxt\fP(1), \f4lfmt\fP(3C), \f4pfmt\fP(3C)
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4addsev\f1 returns 0 in case of success, \-1 otherwise.
.SH NOTES
Only the standard severities are automatically displayed per the locale in
effect at run time.
An application must provide the means for displaying locale-specific versions
of add-on severities.
