'\"!  mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.AUX @(#)AUX	41.3 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc .
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} AUX 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} AUX 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} AUX 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} AUX "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4initauxgroup\f1 \- initialize auxiliary identification and authentication
information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <di_aux.h>
.sp .5
int initauxgroup(const char *uname, gid_t gid, FILE *display);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4initauxgroup\f1 function provides the means for
auxiliary identification and authentication (I&A).
\f4uname\f1 and \f4gid\f1 are the name and group id of the
user that is to be subject to auxiliary I&A.
\f4display\f1 is a handle to the output file stream where
any messages (informative or error indicating) may be printed.
\f4display\f1 is NULL if there is no associated output stream.
.P
Usually, \f4initauxgroup\f1 is used by various system programs
such as login, rshd, etc. that perform I&A functions.
When used in conjunction with a dynamic source (see \f2ssdi\f1(4)
and \f2ssdi\f1(3c)) \f4initauxgroup\f1 allows for customizable
I&A modules.
.P
By default, no auxiliary I&A functions are supported. In other words,
if no dynamic sources are configured, then \f4initauxgroup\f1 always succeeds.
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4ssdi\fP(4), \f4ssdi\f1(3C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4initauxgroup\f1 returns -1 if auxiliary I&A failed. A return value
of anything other than -1 indicates a success.
.ad
