'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3C.cap_get_fd
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CAP_GET_FD 3C "Capabilities Library Routines" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CAP_GET_FD 3C "Capabilities Library Routines"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CAP_GET_FD 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CAP_GET_FD "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
.upperok
cap_get_fd, cap_set_fd \- get or set the capabilities for an open file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/capability.h>
.PP
.B cap_t cap_get_fd(int fd);
.br
.B int cap_set_fd(int fd, cap_t cap);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cap_get_fd
returns a pointer to an allocated \f2cap_t\fP associated with the
open file referred to by \f2fd\fP. If there is no capability set
associated with the file, \f2cap_get_fd\fP returns a NULL pointer 
and sets \f2errno\fP to ENOATTR.
.PP
.I cap_set_fd
sets the capabilities for the open file referred to by \f2fd\fP from the 
\f2cap_t cap\fP.
For this function to succeed,
the process
calling it must have the
\f2CAP_SETFCAP\fP
capability enabled and either
the effective user ID of the process must match the file owner or the calling
process must have the effective
\f2CAP_FOWNER\fP
capability flag set. In addition, if
\f2_POSIX_MAC\fP
is defined, then the process must have MAC write access to
the file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.I cap_get_fd
returns a pointer to an allocated \f2cap_t\fP if successful, NULL otherwise.
The storage should be freed with a call to \f2cap_free\fP with the returned
pointer as an argument when it is no longer needed.
.PP
.I cap_set_fd
returns 0 if successful, -1 otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.I cap_get_fd:
.TP 16
ENOATTR
There is no capability set associated with the file.
.TP 16
EACCESS
Access to the object is denied.
.TP 16
EBADF
\f2fd\fP is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 16
ENOMEM
allocation of the \f2cap_t\fP failed.
.TP 16
ENOSYS
Capability support is not available (not installed).
.PP
.I cap_set_fd:
.TP 16
EACCESS
Access to the object is denied.
.TP 16
EBADF
\f2fd\fP is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 16
EINVAL
\f2cap\fP is not valid
.TP 16
ENOSYS
Capability support is not available (not installed).
.TP 16
EPERM
The process does not have appropriate privilege or does not
meet other restrictions imposed by the implementation to perform the
operation.
.TP 16
EROFS
\f2fd\fP refers to a file on a read only file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
capabilities(4)
