'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3C.cap_envl
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CAP_ENVL 3C "Capabilities Library Routines" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CAP_ENVL 3C "Capabilities Library Routines"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CAP_ENVL 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CAP_ENVL "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
cap_envl, cap_envp \- ensure sufficient process privilege
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/capability.h>
.PP
.B "int cap_envl(int flags, ... /* cap_value_t */)"
.PP
.B "int cap_envp(int flags, size_t ncap, const cap_value_t *caps)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cap_envl
and
.I cap_envp
ensure that the calling process will have sufficient privilege to
perform actions requiring the specified capabilities. 
If the desired and current capability sets are different and if the
desired capability set can be obtained because the process has the
CAP_SETPCAP capability, then the capabilities in the desired
will be acquired.
.PP
.I cap_envl
accepts a variable argument list of capability values, terminated by
an argument of 0 (or \f3CAP_NOT_A_CID\fP).
.PP
.I cap_envp
accepts a counted array of capability values, whose size is specified by
\f2ncap\fP and whose address is \f2caps\fP.
.PP
.I cap_envl
and
.I cap_envp
also understand several \f2flags\fP, which may be bitwise\-ored together:
.TP 16
CAP_ENV_SETUID
If successful, set the process' effective userid to its real userid.
.TP 16
CAP_ENV_RECALC
If successful, set the CAP_FLAG_PURE_RECALC capability flag.
.PP
.I cap_envl
and
.I cap_envp
will return an error if they cannot give the calling process privilege
equivalent to having the capabilities specified in \f2caps\fP, or if the
optional actions specified by \f2flags\fP were not successful.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.I cap_envl
and
.I cap_envp
return 0 if successful, or -1 on error.
.SH ERRORS
.I cap_envl:
.TP 16
EINVAL 
One of the specified capabilties is invalid.
.TP 16
EPERM
The calling process has insufficient privilege to perform privileged
actions requiring the requested capabilities.
.PP
.I cap_envp:
.TP 16
EINVAL
\f2ncap\fP is 0, \f2caps\fP is \f4NULL\fP, or
one of the specified capabilties is invalid.
.TP 16
EPERM
The calling process has insufficient privilege to perform privileged
actions requiring the requested capabilities.
.SH SEE ALSO
cap_set_proc(3c),
capabilities(4).
