'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.catopen @(#)catopen	41.3 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3.catopen @(#)nls 1.1
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} catopen 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} catopen 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} catopen 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} catopen "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4catopen\f1, \f4catclose\f1 \- open/close a message catalogue
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <nl_types.h>
.PP
\f4nl_catd catopen (const char \(**name, int oflag);
.PP
\f4int catclose (nl_catd catd);\f1
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\f4catopen\fP
opens a message catalogue and returns a catalogue descriptor.
\f2name\fP
specifies the name of the message catalogue to be opened.
If
\f2name\fP
contains a ``/'' then 
\f2name\fP
specifies a pathname for the message catalogue.
Otherwise, the environment variable
\f4NLSPATH\fP
is used.
If
\f4NLSPATH\fP
does not exist in the environment,
or if a message catalogue cannot be opened
in any of the paths specified by
\f4NLSPATH\fP,
then the default path is used [see \f4nl_types\fP(5)].
.P
The names of message catalogues, and their location in
the filestore, can vary from one system to another.
Individual applications can choose to name or locate
message catalogues according to their own special
needs.
A mechanism is therefore required to specify
where the catalogue resides.
.P
The \f4NLSPATH\fP variable
provides both the location of message catalogues,
in the form of a search path,
and the naming conventions associated with message
catalogue files.  For example:
.PP
.RS
\f4NLSPATH=/nlslib/%L/%N.cat:/nlslib/%N/%L\fP
.RE
.PP
The metacharacter \f4%\fP
introduces a substitution field, where \f4%L\fP
substitutes 
the current setting of the \f4LANG\fP environment variable 
if \f2oflag\fP is 0 
or
the current setting of the \f4LC_MESSAGES\fP category
if \f2oflag\fP is \f4NL_CAT_LOCALE\fP (see following section),
and 
\f4%N\fP
substitutes the value of the 
\f2name\fP
parameter passed to
\f4catopen\fP.
Thus, in the above example, if \f2oflag\fP is 0,
\f4catopen\fP
will search in 
\f4/nlslib/$LANG/\f2name\fP.cat\f1,
then in 
\f4/nlslib/\f2name\f4/$LANG\f1,
for the required message catalogue.
.P
\f4NLSPATH\fP
will normally be set up on a system wide basis (e.g., in
\f4/etc/profile\fP)
and thus makes the location and naming
conventions associated with message catalogues transparent
to both programs and users.  
.P
The full set of metacharacters is:
.RS
.TP 5
\f4%N\fP
The value of the name parameter passed to \f4catopen\fP.
.TP 5
\f4%L\fP
The value of \f4LANG\fP environment variable if \f2oflag\fP is 0.
The value of \f4LC_MESSAGES\fP category if \f2oflag\fP is \f4NL_CAT_LOCALE\fP.
.TP 5
\f4%l\fP
The value of the language element of \f4LANG\fP environment variable if \f2oflag\fP is 0.
The value of the language element of \f4LC_MESSAGES\fP category if \f2oflag\fP is \f4NL_CAT_LOCALE\fP.
.TP 5
\f4%t\fP
The value of the territory element of \f4LANG\fP environment variable if \f2oflag\fP is 0.
The value of the territory element of \f4LC_MESSAGES\fP category if \f2oflag\fP is \f4NL_CAT_LOCALE\fP.
.TP 5
\f4%c\fP
The value of the codeset element of \f4LANG\fP environment variable if \f2oflag\fP is 0.
The value of the codeset element of \f4LC_MESSAGES\fP category if \f2oflag\fP is \f4NL_CAT_LOCALE\fP.
.TP 5
\f4%%\fP
A single %.
.RE
.P
The \f4LANG\fP environment variable provides the ability to specify the user's
requirements for native languages, local customs, and character set, as an 
\s-1ASCII\s+1 string in the form
.sp .5
.RS
\f4LANG=language[_territory[.codeset]]\fP
.RE
.PP
A user who speaks German as it is spoken in Austria and has a terminal
which operates in \s-1ISO\s+1 8859/1 codeset, would want the setting of
the \f4LANG\fP variable to be 
.PP
.RS
\f4LANG=De_A.88591\fP
.RE
.PP
With this setting it should be possible for that user to find any 
relevant catalogues should they exist. 
.PP
If it still can't find the catalogue file, then the default
path as defined in \f4nl_types\fP is used.
.P
\f2oflag\fP
is used to locate the catalogue file. If \f2oflag\fP is 0, the \f4LANG\fP environment
variable is used to locate it. If \f2oflag\fP is set to \f4NL_CAT_LOCALE\fP, the \f4LC_MESSAGES\fP
category is used to locate the catalogue file.
The results of setting this field to any other value
are undefined.
.P
\f4catclose\fP
closes the message catalogue identified by
.IR catd .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4catgets\fP(3C), \f4setlocale\fP(3C), \f4environ\fP(5), \f4nl_types\fP(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If successful, 
\f4catopen\fP
returns a message catalogue descriptor for use in
subsequent calls to
\f4catgets\fP
and 
\f4catclose\fP.
Otherwise
\f4catopen\fP
returns 
\f4(nl_catd) -1\fP.
.P 
\f4catclose\fP
returns 0 if successful, otherwise \-1.
