'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.crypt @(#)crypt	30.2 of 12/30/85
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CRYPT 3C "C Programming Language Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CRYPT 3C "C Programming Language Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CRYPT 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CRYPT "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
crypt, setkey, encrypt \- generate hashing encryption
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <crypt.h>"
.PP
.B "char \(**crypt(const char \(**key, const char \(**salt);
.PP
.B "void setkey(const char \(**key);
.PP
.B "void encrypt(const char \(**block, int ignored);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I crypt\^
is the password encryption function.
It is based on a one way hashing encryption algorithm
with
variations intended (among other things) to frustrate use of hardware
implementations of a
key search.
.PP
.I Key\^
is the input string to encrypt, for instance, a user's typed password.
.I Salt\^
is a two-character string chosen from the
set [\f3a-zA-Z0-9.\/\fP];
this
string is used to perturb the
hashing
algorithm in one of 4096
different ways, after which the password
is used as the key to encrypt repeatedly a constant string.
The returned value points to the encrypted password.
The first two characters are the salt itself.
.PP
The
.I setkey\^
and
.I encrypt\^
entries provide (rather primitive)
access to the actual
hashing
algorithm.
The argument of
.I setkey\^
is a character array of length 64 containing only the characters
with numerical value 0 and 1.
If this string is divided into groups of 8,
the low-order bit in each group is ignored;
this gives a 56-bit key which is set into the machine.
This is the key that will be used
with the hashing algorithm to encrypt
the string
.I block\^
with the function
.IR encrypt .
.PP
The argument to the
.I encrypt\^
entry is a character array of length 64
containing only the characters with
numerical value 0 and 1.
The argument array is modified in place
to a similar array
representing the bits of the argument after having been
subjected to the
hashing
algorithm using the key set by
.IR setkey .
.I Ignored
is unused by 
.I encrypt\^
but it must be present.
.SH SEE ALSO
login(1), passwd(1),
getpass(3C), passwd(4)
.SH CAVEAT
The return value
points to static data that are overwritten
by each call.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
.\"	@(#)crypt.3c	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
