'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.ctype @(#)ctype	41.5 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ctype 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ctype 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ctype 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ctype "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4ctype: isdigit\f1, \f4isxdigit\f1, \f4islower\f1, \f4isupper\f1, \f4isalpha\f1,
\f4isalnum\f1, \f4isspace\f1, \f4iscntrl\f1, \f4ispunct\f1, \f4isprint\f1,
\f4isgraph\f1, \f4isascii\f1, \f4__isblank\f1 \- character handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
.nf
#include <ctype.h>
.sp0.5
int isupper(int c);
.sp0.5
int islower(int c);
.sp0.5
int isalpha(int c);
.sp0.5
int isdigit(int c);
.sp0.5
int isxdigit(int c);
.sp0.5
int isspace(int c);
.sp0.5
int ispunct(int c);
.sp0.5
int isprint(int c);
.sp0.5
int isgraph(int c);
.sp0.5
int iscntrl(int c);
.sp0.5
int __isblank(int c);
.sp0.5
int isalnum(int c);
.sp0.5
int isascii(int c);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These macros classify character-coded integer values.
Each is a predicate returning non-zero for true, zero for false.
The behavior of these macros, except for \&\f4isascii\f1,
is affected by the current locale [see \f4setlocale\fP(3C)].
To modify the behavior, change the \f4LC_TYPE\fP category in 
\f4setlocale\f1, that is, \f4setlocale\fP (\f4LC_CTYPE\fP, \f2newlocale\f1).
In the \f4C\f1
locale, or in a locale where character type information is not
defined, characters are classified according to the rules of the
\s-1US-ASCII\s+1 7-bit coded character set.
.P
The macro \&\f4isascii\f1 is defined on all integer values;
the rest are defined only where the argument is an \&\f4int\f1,
the value of which is representable as an \&\f4unsigned char\f1,
or \&\f4EOF\f1, which is defined by the \&\f4stdio.h\f1 header file
and represents end-of-file.
.TP 15
\f4isupper\f1
tests for any character that is classified as an uppercase letter.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the \&\f4cntrl\f1, \&\f4digit\f1,
\&\f4punct\f1, or \&\f4space\f1 character class can be specified as 
class \&\f4upper\f1 character.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, the 26 uppercase letters are included in the
class \&\f4upper\f1: 
.ft CW
.nf
.sp 1v
  A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
.ft 1
.fi
.TP 15
\f4islower\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a lowercase letter.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the \&\f4cntrl\f1, \&\f4digit\f1,
\&\f4punct\f1, or \&\f4space\f1, character class can be specified as
class \&\f4lower\f1 character.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, the 26 lowercase letters are included in the
class \&\f4lower\f1: 
.ft CW
.nf
.sp 1v
  a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
.ft 1
.fi
.TP 15
\f4isalpha\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a letter. 
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the \&\f4cntrl\f1, \&\f4digit\f1,
\&\f4punct\f1, or \&\f4space\f1 character class can be specified as 
class \&\f4alpha\f1 character.
Characters classified as either \&\f4upper\f1 or \&\f4lower\f1 class are
automatically included in the class \&\f4alpha\f1.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, all characters in the classes \&\f4upper\f1 and
\&\f4lower\f1 are included in the class \&\f4alpha\f1.
.TP 15
\f4isdigit\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a numeric digit.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
only the digits \&\f4[0\-9]\f1, in contiguous ascending sequence
by numerical value, can be specified as 
class \&\f4digit\f1 character.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, only: 
.ft CW
.nf
.sp 1v
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
.sp 1v
.ft 1
.fi
are included in the class \&\f4digit\f1. 
.TP 15
\f4isxdigit\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a hexadecimal digit.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
only the characters defined for the class \&\f4digit\f1,
in contiguous ascending sequence by numerical value,
followed by one or more sets of six characters representing the
hexadecimal digits 10 to 15 inclusive
(for example A, B, C, D, E, F, a, b, c, d, e, f),
with each set in ascending order, can be specified as class
\&\f4xdigit\f1 character.
.IP
In the \&\f4C\f1 locale, only: 
.ft CW
.nf
.sp 1v
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F a b c d e f
.sp 1v
.ft 1
.fi
are included in the class \&\f4xdigit\f1.
.TP 15
\f4isspace\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a white-space character.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the \&\f4upper\f1, \&\f4lower\f1, \&\f4alpha\f1,
\&\f4digit\f1, \&\f4graph\f1, or \&\f4xdigit\f1 character class can be
specified as class \&\f4space\f1 character.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, the characters space, form-feed,
newline, carriage-return, tab and vertical-tab are included in the
class \&\f4space\f1. 
.TP 15
\f4ispunct\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a punctuation character.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the \&\f4upper\f1, \&\f4lower\f1, \&\f4alpha\f1,
\&\f4digit\f1, \&\f4cntrl\f1, or \&\f4xdigit\f1 character class
can be specified as class \&\f4punct\f1 character. 
The space character cannot be specified as class \&\f4punct\f1 character.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, neither the space character nor any characters in
classes \&\f4alpha\f1, \&\f4digit\f1 or \&\f4cntrl\f1 are included in
the class \&\f4punct\f1.
.TP 15
\f4isprint\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a printable character, including
the space character.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the class \&\f4cntrl\f1 can be specified as
class \&\f4print\f1 character.  Characters specified for the classes
\&\f4upper\f1, \&\f4lower\f1, \&\f4alpha\f1, \&\f4digit\f1, \&\f4xdigit\f1,
\&\f4punct\f1 and the space character are automatically included in the
class \&\f4print\f1.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, all characters in class \&\f4graph\f1 are included
in the class \&\f4print\f1; no characters in class \&\f4cntrl\f1 are included. 
.TP 15
\f4isgraph\f1
tests for any character that is classified as printable character, not including
the space character.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the class \&\f4cntrl\f1 can be specified as
class \&\f4graph\f1 character.
Characters specified for the classes
\&\f4upper\f1, \&\f4lower\f1, \&\f4alpha\f1, \&\f4digit\f1, \&\f4xdigit\f1,
and \&\f4punct\f1 are automatically included in the
class \&\f4print\f1.
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, all characters in classes
\&\f4alpha\f1, \&\f4digit\f1 and \&\f4punct\f1
are included in the class \&\f4graph\f1;
no characters in class \&\f4cntrl\f1 are included.
.TP 15
\f4iscntrl\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a control character.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class,
no character specified for the
\&\f4upper\f1, \&\f4lower\f1, \&\f4alpha\f1, \&\f4digit\f1, \&\f4punct\f1,
\&\f4graph\f1, \&\f4print\f1 or \&\f4xdigit\f1 character class
can be specified as class
\&\f4cntrl\f1 character. 
.IP
In the \f4C\f1 locale, no characters in classes \&\f4alpha\f1 or \&\f4print\f1
are included in the class \&\f4cntrl\f1.
.TP 15
\f4__isblank\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a blank character.
.IP
In the \&\f4C\f1 locale, only the space and tab characters are included in
the class \&\f4blank\f1. 
.TP 15
\f4isalnum\f1
tests for any character that is classified as a letter or a numerical digit.
.IP
In a locale-specific character class, characters in
the classes \&\f4upper\f1, \&\f4lower\f1, \&\f4alpha\f1, and \&\f4digit\f1
are automatically classified as letters or numerical digits.
.TP 15
\f4isascii\f1
tests for any \s-1ASCII\s+1 character,
code between \&\f40\f1 and \&\f40177\f1 inclusive.

.PP
All the character classification macros 
use a table lookup.
.PP
Functions exist for all the above-defined macros.  To get the function
form, the macro name must be bypassed (e.g., \f4#undef isdigit\f1).
.SH "FILES"
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_CTYPE\f1
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4chrtbl\fP(1M),
\f4wchrtbl\fP(1M),
\f4ctype\fP(3C),
\f4setlocale\fP(3C),
\f4stdio\fP(3S),
\f4ascii\fP(5),
\f4environ\fP(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the argument to any of the character handling macros  
is not in the domain of the function, the result is undefined.
