'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.dup2 @(#)dup2	41.2 of 5/14/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} dup2 3C "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} dup2 3C "" ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} dup2 3C "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} dup2 3C "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4dup2\f1 \- duplicate an open file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int dup2 (int fildes, int fildes2);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2fildes\f1 is a 
file descriptor referring to an open file, and 
\f2fildes2\f1 is a non-negative integer less than
the maximum number of open files available.
\f4dup2\fP causes \f2fildes2\f1 to refer 
to the same file as \f2fildes\f1.
If \f2fildes2\f1
already referred to an open file, not \f2fildes\fP, it is closed first.
If \f2fildes2\fP refers to \f2fildes\fP, or if \f2fildes\fP is not a valid
open file descriptor, \f2fildes2\fP will not be closed first.
.PP
\f4dup2\fP
will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
\f4EBADF\f1
.I fildes\^
is not a valid open
file descriptor.
.TP
\f4EBADF\f1
\f2fildes2\fP is negative or greater than or equal to the maximum number of
open files available.
.TP
\f4EINTR\f1
a signal was caught during the \f4dup2\fP call.
.TP
\f4EMFILE\f1
The maximum number of
file descriptors
are currently open.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4creat\fP(2), \f4close\fP(2), \f4exec\fP(2),
\f4fcntl\fP(2), \f4open\fP(2), \f4pipe\fP(2), \f4lockf\fP(3C), \f4limits\fP(4)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion a non-negative integer,
namely, the
file descriptor,
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\f1
is set to indicate the error.
.\"	@(#)dup.2	6.2 of 9/6/83
.Ee
