'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.ecvt @(#)ecvt	40.9 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ecvt 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ecvt 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ecvt 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ecvt "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4ecvt\f1, \f4fcvt\f1, \f4gcvt\f1, \f4ecvt_r\f1, \f4fcvt_r\f1, \f4ecvtl\f1, \f4fcvtl\f1, \f4gcvtl\f1, \f4ecvtl_r\f1, \f4fcvtl_r\f1 \- convert floating-point number to string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <stdlib.h>\f1
.PP
\f4char \(**ecvt (double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**fcvt (double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**gcvt (double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, char \(**\f2buf\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**ecvt_r (double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4,\fP
.br
		\f4char \(**\f2buf\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**fcvt_r (double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4,\fP
.br
		\f4char \(**\f2buf\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**ecvtl (long double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**fcvtl (long double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**gcvtl (long double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, char \(**\f2buf\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**ecvtl_r (long double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4,\fP
.br
		\f4char \(**\f2buf\f4);\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**fcvtl_r (long double \f2value\f4, int \f2ndigit\f4, int \(**\f2decpt\f4, int \(**\f2sign\f4,\fP
.br
		\f4char \(**\f2buf\f4);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
(Note that the long double routines are only valid for the MIPSpro
compilers.)
Long double functions have been renamed to be compliant with
the ANSI-C standard, however to be backward compatible, they
may still be called with the double precision function name
prefixed with a q.  (Exceptions:  ecvtl_r and fcvtl_r can be
called with names qecvt_r and qfcvt_r, resp.)
.PP
\f4ecvt\fP
converts 
.I value\^
to a null-terminated string of
.I ndigit\^
digits
and returns a pointer thereto.
The high-order digit is non-zero, unless the value is zero.
The low-order digit is rounded.
The position of the decimal point relative to the
beginning of the string is stored indirectly
through
.I decpt\^
(negative means to the left of the
returned digits). The decimal point is not
included in the returned string.
If the sign of the result is negative,
the word pointed to by
.IR sign ""
is non-zero, otherwise
it is zero.
.PP
\f4fcvt\fP
is identical to
\f4ecvt\f1,
except that the correct digit
has been rounded for \f4printf %f\fP
output of the number
of digits specified by
.IR ndigit .
.PP
\f4gcvt\fP
converts the
.I value\^
to a null-terminated string in
the array pointed to by
.I buf\^
and returns
.IR buf .
It attempts to produce
.I ndigit\^
significant digits in \f4%f\fP format if
possible, otherwise \f4%e\fP format (scientific notation), ready for
printing. A minus sign, if there is one, or a decimal point will be
included as part of the returned string.
Trailing zeros are suppressed.
.PP
\f4ecvtl\fP, \f4fcvtl\fP, and \f4gcvtl\fP are the long double versions
of functions \f4ecvt\fP, \f4fcvt\fP, and \f4gcvt\fP.
.PP
\f4ecvt_r\f1 and \f4fcvt_r\f1 are reentrant versions of \f4ecvt\f1 and
\f4fcvt\f1.
They are useful when multiple threads in a process wish to convert
floating point numbers to strings.
The conversion is produced in \f2buf\f1 which
should be at least 84 characters long.
The return value is a pointer into \f2buf\f1 which may or may not point
at the beginning of \f2buf\f1.
The feature test macro \f4_SGI_REENTRANT_FUNCTIONS\f1 should be defined
to make these two functions visible.
.PP
\f4ecvtl_r\fP and \f4fcvtl_r\fP are the long double versions of
functions \f4ecvt_r\fP and \f4fcvt_r\fP.  Define \f4_SGI_REENTRANT_FUNCTIONS\f1 
to make these two functions visible.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4printf\fP(3S).
.SH NOTES
The values returned by
\f4ecvt\fP,
\f4fcvt\fP,
\f4ecvtl\fP,
and
\f4fcvtl\fP
point to a single static data array
whose content is overwritten by each call.
.\"	@(#)ecvt.3c	6.3 of 10/20/83
.Ee
