'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man3.ethers @(#)ethers	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH ETHERS 3Y
.SH NAME
ether_ntoa, ether_aton, ether_ntohost, ether_hostton, ether_line \- ethernet address mapping operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
struct ether_addr {
    unsigned char  ether_addr_octet[6];
};
.sp.5
char \(**ether_ntoa\|(struct ether_addr \(**e);
.sp.5
struct ether_addr \(**ether_aton\|(char \(**s);
.sp.5
int ether_ntohost\|(char \(**hostname, struct ether_addr \(**e);
.sp.5
int ether_hostton\|(char \(**hostname, struct ether_addr \(**e);
.sp.5
int ether_line\|(char \(**l, struct ether_addr \(**e, char \(**hostname)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are useful for mapping 48 bit ethernet numbers to their
ASCII representations or their corresponding host names, and vice versa.
.LP
The function
.I ether_ntoa
converts a 48-bit ethernet number pointed to by
.I e
to its standard ACSII representation;
it returns a pointer to the ASCII string.
The representation is of the form: ``x:x:x:x:x:x'' where
.I x
is a hexadecimal number between 0 and ff.
The function
.I ether_aton
converts an ASCII string in the standard representation back
to a 48 bit ethernet number;  the function returns NULL if the string
cannot be scanned successfully.
.LP
The function 
.I ether_ntohost
maps an ethernet number (pointed to by
.IR e )
to its associated hostname.  The string pointed to by
.I hostname
must be long enough to hold the hostname and a null character.
The function returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
Inversely, the function
.I ether_hostton
maps a hostname string to its corresponding ethernet number;
the function modifies the ethernet number pointed to by
.IR e .
The function also returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
.LP
The function
.I ether_line
scans a line (pointed to by
.IR l )
and sets the hostname and the ethernet number (pointed to by
.IR e ).
The string pointed to by
.I hostname
must be long enough to hold the hostname and a null character.
The function returns zero upon success and non-zero upon failure.
The format of the scanned line is described by
.IR ethers (4).
.SH FILES
/etc/ethers	(or the NIS maps ethers.byaddr and ethers.byname)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ethers(4)
of these functions.
