'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.fattach @(#)fattach	41.5 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} fattach 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} fattach 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fattach 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} fattach "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4fattach\fP \- attach a STREAMS-based file descriptor to an object
in the filesystem name space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f4int fattach(int fildes, const char *path);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4fattach\f1 routine attaches a STREAMS-based file descriptor to an
object in the filesystem name space, effectively associating a name with
\f2fildes\f1.
\f2fildes\f1 must be a valid open file descriptor representing a STREAMS file.
\f2path\f1 is a pathname of an existing object, and the effective user
ID of the calling process must be the owner of the file and have
write permissions, or
the calling process must have appropriate privilege (\f4P_OWNER\fP).
All subsequent operations on \f2path\f1 will operate on the
STREAMS file until the STREAMS file is detached from the node.
\f2fildes\f1 can be attached to more than one \f2path\f1; that is, a stream can
have several names associated with it.
.PP
The attributes of the named stream (see \f4stat\f1(2)), are initialized as follows:
the permissions, user ID, group ID, and times are set to those of
\f2path\f1, the number of links is set to 1, and the size and device
identifier are set to those of the streams device associated with \f2fildes\f1.
If any attributes of the named stream are subsequently changed
(for example, \f4chmod\f1(2)), the attributes of the underlying object are
not affected.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, \f4fattach\f1 returns 0; otherwise it returns -1 and sets
\f4errno\f1 to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
Under the following conditions,
the function \f4fattach\f1 fails and sets \f4errno\f1 to:
.TP 13
\f4EACCES\fP
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP
\f4EACCES\fP
The user is the owner of the filenamed by \f2path\f1 but does not
have write permissions on \f2path\f1 or \f2fildes\f1 is locked.
.\".TP
.\"\f4EACCES\fP
.\"The Mandatory Access Control level of the filenamed by \f2path\fP
.\"is not equal to the level of the device associated with \f2fildes\fP.
.TP 13
\f4EBADF\fP
\f2fildes\f1 is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP 13
\f4ENOENT\fP
\f2path\f1 does not exist.
.TP 13
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
A component of a path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 13
\f4EINVAL\fP
\f2fildes\f1 does not represent a STREAMS file.
.TP 13
\f4EPERM\fP
The effective user ID of the calling process
is not the owner of the filenamed by \f2path\f1.
.\"nor does the process have appropriate privilege (\f4P_OWNER\fP).
.TP 13
\f4EBUSY\fP
\f2path\f1 is currently a mount point or has a STREAMS file
descriptor attached it.
.TP 13
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
The size of \f2path\f1 exceeds \f4{PATH_MAX}\fP, or the component of
a pathname is longer than \f4{NAME_MAX}\fP while \f4{_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}\fP
is in effect.
.TP 13
\f4ELOOP\fP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \f2path\f1.
.TP 13
\f4EREMOTE\fP
\f2path\fP is a file in a remotely mounted directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fdetach(1M),
fdetach(3C),
isastream(3C),
streamio(7)
