'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.fdetach @(#)fdetach	40.7 of 4/5/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} fdetach 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} fdetach 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fdetach 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} fdetach "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4fdetach\fP \- detach a name from a STREAMS-based file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4int fdetach(const char *path);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4fdetach\f1 routine detaches a STREAMS-based file descriptor from
a name in the filesystem.
\f2path\f1 is the pathname of the object in the filesystem name space,
which was previously attached (see \f4fattach\f1(3C)).
The user must be the owner of the file or a user with the appropriate privileges.
All subsequent operations on \f2path\f1 will operate on the filesystem node
and not on the STREAMS file.
The permissions and status of the node are restored to the state the node was
in before the STREAMS file was attached to it.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, \f4fdetach\f1 returns 0; otherwise it returns -1 and sets
\f4errno\f1 to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
Under the following conditions, the function \f4fdetach\f1 fails and
sets \f4errno\f1 to:
.TP 13
\f4EPERM\fP
The effective user ID is not the owner of \f2path\f1 or is
not a user with appropriate permissions.
.TP 13
\f4ENOTDIR\fP
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 13
\f4ENOENT\fP
\f2path\f1 does not exist.
.TP 13
\f4EINVAL\fP
\f2path\f1 is not attached to a STREAMS file.
.TP 13
\f4ENAMETOOLONG\fP
The size of \f2path\f1 exceeds \f4{PATH_MAX}\fP, or a pathname component
is longer than \f4{NAME_MAX}\fP while \f4{_POSIX_NO_TRUNC}\fP is in effect.
.TP 13
\f4ELOOP\fP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \f2path\f1.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fdetach(1M),
fattach(3C),
streamio(7)
