'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.fpgetmask @(#)fpgetmask	40.9 of 7/16/97
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} fpgetmask 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} fpgetmask 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fpgetmask 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} fpgetmask "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
fpgetmask, fpgetround, fpgetsticky, fpsetmask, fpsetround, fpsetsticky \- fetch/set subfields of 
floating-point control status register of MIPS floating-point units
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <ieeefp.h>\f1
.PP
\f4#define fp_except       int\f1
.PP
\f4typedef enum    fp_rnd {
    FP_RN = 0,  /* round to nearest representable number, 
.br
                   tie -> even */
    FP_RZ = 1,  /* round toward zero (truncate) */
    FP_RP = 2,  /* round toward plus infinity   */
    FP_RM = 3   /* round toward minus infinity  */
    } fp_rnd;\f1
.PP
\f4fp_except fpgetmask(void);\f1
.PP
\f4fp_rnd    fpgetround(void);\f1
.PP
\f4fp_except fpgetsticky(void);\f1
.PP
\f4fp_except fpsetmask(fp_except);\f1
.PP
\f4fp_rnd    fpsetround(fp_rnd);\f1
.PP
\f4fp_except fpsetsticky(fp_except);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines fetch/set various subfields of the floating-
.br
point control status register of the floating-point unit.
.PP
\f4fpgetmask\f1 returns the current exception mask.
.PP
\f4fpgetround\f1 returns the current rounding mode.
.PP
\f4fpgetsticky\f1 returns the logged exceptions.
.PP
\f4fpsetmask\f1 sets the exception mask, returning the previous 
.br
exception mask.  Any sticky bit whose corresponding mask bit is
being enabled is cleared.
.PP
\f4fpsetround\f1 sets the rounding mode, returning the previous
.br
rounding mode.
.PP
\f4fpsetsticky\f1 sets the logged exceptions, returning the
previous logged exceptions.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4fpc\fP(3C), \f4sigfpe\fP(3C)
.br
R4000 Microprocessor User's Manual
.SH NOTES
All of these routines take and/or return their values right justified.
.\"	@(#)fpgetmask.3c	6.3 of 7/16/97
.Ee
