'\"macro stdmacro
.\"********************************************************************
.\"*        Copyright (C) 1994, Silicon Graphics, Incorporated.       *
.\"*                   All Rights Reserved                            *
.\"********************************************************************
.if n .pH g3c.getabi @(#)getabi	41.8 of 5/26/91
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} getabi 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} getabi 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} getabi 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} getabi "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4getabi\f1 \- get ABI from argument vector
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <getabi.h>\f1
.PP
\f4abi_t getabi (int generic_size, int modify_abi_arg, char \(****argv, int \(**argc);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4getabi\fP
is used to determine whether to use the 32-bit ABI 
.I (abi32)
or the 64-bit ABI
.I (abi64).
First it checks the 
.I argv 
list for "-32" or "-64".
If neither of these is given, then it checks the 
.I argv 
list for a "-mips[1-4]" option.
Mips 1 and 2 imply 
.I abi32
while mips 3 and 4 imply
.I abi64.
If none of the 
.I argv 
options specify the abi,
then we check the 
.I SGI_ABI
environment variable, which can be set to either
"-32" or "-64".
If 
.I SGI_ABI
is not in the environment, then we check what kernel is installed.
If we are running on a system that has the 64-bit kernel,
then we default to 
.I abi64;
else we default to 
.I abi32.
.PP
The
.I generic_size
parameter says whether to return the ABI for the generic size
.I (abi32
or
.I abi64),
or to return the specific ABI
.I (abio32
or
.I abi64).
.PP
The
.I modify_abi_arg
parameter says whether to ignore the 
.I argv 
list when determining the ABI, or, if we do use the 
.I argv
list, whether to preserve the 
.I argv 
list, or add the default abi value to the 
.I argv 
list, or remove the abi value from the 
.I argv 
list.  This gives extra flexibility to users in how
ABI options are handled in the 
.I argv 
list.
This is also why the 
.I argv
and
.I argc 
options are passed by address, so their values
can possibly be modified by
.I getabi().
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4getabi\fP(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4getabi\fP
prints an error message on the standard error
and returns 
.I noabi
when it encounters an error.
.\"	@(#)getabi.3c	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
