'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.getcwd @(#)getcwd	40.15 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} getcwd 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} getcwd 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} getcwd 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} getcwd "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4getcwd\f1 \- get pathname of current working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4char \(**getcwd (char \(**buf, size_t size);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4getcwd\fP
returns a pointer to
the current directory pathname.
The value of
.I size
must be at least one greater than the length of the
pathname to be returned.
.PP
If
.I buf
is not
\f4NULL\fP,
the pathname will be stored in the space pointed to by \f2buf\f1.
.PP
If
.I buf
is a
\f4NULL\fP
pointer,
\f4getcwd\fP
will obtain
.I size
bytes of space using
\f4malloc\fP(3C).
In this case, a subsequent call to 
\f4free\fP
should be made using the pointer returned by
\f4getcwd\fP
as the argument. 
If
.I size
is less than zero, then \f4getcwd\fP will obtain an appropriate amount
of space.
Passing a negative
.I size
and a non-NULL
.I buf
argument will lead to undefined results.
.PP
\f4getcwd\fP will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 12
\f4EACCES\fP
A parent directory cannot be read to get its name.
.TP 12
\f4EINVAL\fP
\f2size\fP is equal to 0.
.TP 12
\f4ERANGE\fP
\f2size\fP is less than the length of the pathname plus 1.
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a program
that prints the current working directory.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <unistd.h>
#include <stdio.h>

main()
{
	char \(**cwd;
	if ((cwd = getcwd(NULL, 64)) == NULL)
	{
		perror("pwd");
		exit(2);
	}
	(void)printf("%s\en", cwd);
	free(cwd);
	return(0);
}
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4malloc\fP(3C).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns
\f4NULL\f1
with
\f4errno\f1
set if
.I size
is not large enough, or if an error occurs
in a lower-level function.
.SH NOTES
\f4getcwd\f1
uses the end part of the buffer (
.I buf
+ 
.I size 
- 1) as temporary space.  Be sure that the 
.I size 
argument accurately reflects the space allocated to the buffer.
.ft 1
.\"	@(#)getcwd.3c	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
