'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.getlogin @(#)getlogin	40.12 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} getlogin 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} getlogin 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} getlogin 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} getlogin "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4getlogin\f1, \f4getlogin_r\f1 \- get login name
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <unistd.h>\f1
.PP
\f4char \(**getlogin (void);\f1
.PP
\f4int getlogin_r (char \(**name, size_t namelen);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4getlogin\fP
returns a pointer to
the login name
as found in
\f4/var/adm/utmp\f1.
It may be used
in conjunction
with
\f4getpwnam\fP
to locate the correct
password file entry
when the same user
id is shared by several
login names.
.PP
If
\f4getlogin\fP
is called within a process
that is not attached to a
terminal, it returns a
null
pointer.
The correct procedure
for determining the login name
is to call
\f4cuserid\fP,
or to call
\f4getlogin\fP
and if it fails
to call
\f4getpwuid\fP.
.PP
\f4getlogin_r\fP is a reentrant version of \f4getlogin\fP.
The login name is copied into the character array pointed to by \f2name\fP.
The array is \f2namelen\fP long and should have space for the name and
the terminating null character.
The maximum size of the login name is \f4{LOGIN_NAME_MAX}\fP.
\f4sysconf\fP(3C) may be used to determine this value.
.P
The following error can be returned by \f4getlogin_r\fP:
.TP 15
\f4ERANGE\fP
The value of \f2namelen\fP is smaller than the length
of the string to be returned.
.SH FILES
\f4/var/adm/utmp\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4cuserid\fP(3S), \f4getgrent\fP(3C), \f4getpwent\fP(3C), \f4sysconf\fP(3C),
\f4utmp\fP(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4getlogin\fP returns
a null
pointer if
the login name is not found.
\f4getlogin_r\fP returns 0 on success or a an error number on failure.
.SH NOTES
The return values point to static data
whose content is overwritten by each call.
.\"	@(#)getlogin.3c	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
