'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man3.getnetgrent @(#)getnetgrent	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH GETNETGRENT 3Y
.SH NAME
getnetgrent, innetgr, setnetgrent, endnetgrent \- get NIS network group entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <netdb.h>"
.sp
.B "int innetgr\|(char \(**netgroup, char \(**machine, char \(**user, char \(**domain);
.PP
.B "int getnetgrent\|(char \(**\(**machinep, char \(**\(**userp, char \(**\(**domainp);
.PP
.B "void setnetgrent\|(char \(**netgroup);
.PP
.B "void endnetgrent\|(void);
.fi
.IX  "get network group entry"
.IX  "set network group entry"
.IX  "network group entry"  get
.IX  "group entry"  "get network"
.IX  "getnetgrent function"  ""  "\fLgetnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "setnetgrent function"  ""  "\fLsetnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "endnetgrent function"  ""  "\fLendnetgrent\fP \(em get network group entry"
.IX  "innetgr function"  ""  "\fLinnetgr\fP \(em get network group entry"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2Innetgr\fP returns 1 or 0, depending on whether
\f2netgroup\fP contains the machine, user, or domain triple as a member.
Any of the three strings machine, user, or domain can be NULL, in
which case it signifies a wild card.
.PP
\f2Getnetgrent\fP
returns the next member of a network group.  After the call,
machinep will contain a pointer to a string containing the name
of the machine part of the network group member, and similarly
for userp and domainp.  If any of machinep, userp or domainp is 
returned as a NULL pointer, it signifies a wild card. \f2Getnetgrent\f1 will
\f2malloc\f1(3) space for the name.  This space is released when a
\f2endnetgrent\f1 call is made.
.I Getnetgrent
returns 1 if it succeeding in obtaining another
member of the network group, 0 if it has reached the
end of the group.
.PP
.I Setnetgrent
establishes the network group from which \f2getnetgrent\f1 will
obtain members, and also restarts calls to \f2getnetgrent\f1
from the beginning of the list.  If the previous \f2setnetgrent\f1
call was to a different network group and there has been no intervening
call to \f2endnetgrent\f1, an \f2endnetgrent\f1 call is
implied.
.I Endnetgrent
frees the space allocated during the \f2getnetgrent\f1 calls.
.SH NOTE
The Mips ABI specifies nothing but local files so applications which
wish to use anything else must compile with libc prior to libnsl in the
library list.
.SH FILES
/etc/netgroup	database used to create NIS netgroup maps. This file
		is ignored if NIS is not running.
