'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.gettxt @(#)gettxt	41.12 of 5/29/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} gettxt 3C "C Program Language Utilities"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} gettxt 3C "C Program Language Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} gettxt 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} gettxt "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4gettxt\f1 \- retrieve a text string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
\f4#include <unistd.h>
.PP
\f4char \(**gettxt (const char \(**\f2msgid\fP, const char \(**\f2dflt_str\fP);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4gettxt\fP
retrieves a text string from a message file.
The arguments to the function are a
message identification
.IR msgid
and a default string 
.IR dflt_str
to be used if the retrieval fails.
.PP
The text strings are in files created by the \f4mkmsgs\fP utility
[see \f4mkmsgs\fP(1)]
and installed in directories in
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\fP/LC_MESSAGES\f1.
.PP
The directory \f2locale\f1 can be viewed as the language
in which the text strings are written.
The user can request that messages be displayed in a
specific language by setting environment variables.
That is, the \f2locale\f1 directory searched is specified
by the \f4LC_MESSAGES\f1
environment variable if it is set to a non-empty value.
Otherwise, it is specified by the \f4LANG\f1 environment variable
if it is set to a non-empty value.
Otherwise, the directory \f4C\f1 is used.
.PP
The user can also change the language in which the messages
are displayed by invoking the \f4setlocale\f1
function with the appropriate arguments.
If the locale is explicitly changed (via \f4setlocale\fP),
the pointers returned by \f4gettxt\fP may no longer be valid.
.PP
The following depicts the acceptable syntax of \f2msgid\f1
for a call to \f4gettxt\fP.
.PP
.RS
\f4[\f2msgfilename\f4]:\f2msgnumber\f1
.RE
.P
\f2msgfilename\f1 indicates the message database that contains
the localized version of the text string.
\f2msgfilename\f1 must be limited to 14 characters.
These characters must be selected from a set of all characters values,
excluding \f4\\0\f1 (null) and the \s-1ASCII\s+1 codes for \f4/\f1 (slash) and
\f4:\f1 (colon).
.P
\f2msgnum\f1 must be a positive number that indicates the index of the string
in the message database.
.P
If \f2msgfilename\f1 does not exist in the locale (specified by the last call to
\f4setlocale\f1 using the \f4LC_ALL\f1 or \f4LC_MESSAGES\f1
categories), or if the message number is out of bounds,
\f4gettxt\f1 attempts to retrieve the message from the C locale.
If this second retrieval fails, \f4gettxt\f1 uses \f2dflt_str\f1.
.P
If \f2msgfilename\f1 is omitted, \f4gettxt\f1 attempts to retrieve the
string from the default catalog specified by the last call to \f4setcat\f1(3C).
.P
\f4gettxt\f1 outputs \f4Message not found!!\\n\f1 if:
.RS
.PD0
.TP .25i
\-
\f2msgfilename\f1 is not a valid catalog name as defined above
.TP .25i
\-
no catalog is specified (either explicitly or via \f4setcat\f1)
.TP .25i
\-
\f2msgnumber\f1 is not a positive number
.TP .25i
\-
no message could be retrieved and \f2dflt_str\f1 was omitted
.RE
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
In the following code fragment,
\f4test\f1 is the name of the file that contains the messages and
\f410\f1 is the message number.
.PP
.RS
.ft 4
.nf
gettxt("test:10", "hello world\\n")
gettxt("test:10", "")
setcat("test");
gettxt(":10", "hello world\\n")
.ft 1
.RE
.SH FILES
The following files are created by
\f4mkmsgs\fP:
.TS
center ;
lf4 l .
/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/\(**	T{
default message files
T}
/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\fP/LC_MESSAGES/\(**\f1	T{
message files for language specified by \f2locale\fP
T}
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4exstr\fP(1),
\f4gettxt\fP(1),
\f4mkmsgs\fP(1),
\f4srchtxt\fP(1),
\f4lfmt\fP(3C),
\f4pfmt\fP(3C),
\f4setcat\fP(3C),
\f4setlocale\fP(3C),
\f4environ\fP(5)
