'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)gettimeofday.2	6.7 (Berkeley) 5/14/86
.\"
.TH GETTIMEOFDAY 3B
.UC 4
.SH NAME
gettimeofday, settimeofday \- get/set date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 3
#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
.I XPG4:
.ft 3
int gettimeofday(struct timeval \(**tp, void \(**tzp);
.PP
.I System V:
.ft 3
int gettimeofday(struct timeval \(**tp, ...);
.PP
.ft 3
int settimeofday(struct timeval \(**tp, ...);
.PP
.I BSD:
.ft 3
int BSDgettimeofday(struct timeval \(**tp, struct timezone \(**tzp);
.PP
.ft 3
int BSDsettimeofday(struct timeval \(**tp, struct timezone \(**tzp);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system's notion of the current time is obtained with the
.I gettimeofday
and
.I BSDgettimeofday
calls.
The time is expressed
in seconds and microseconds since midnight (00:00) Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), January 1, 1970.
The resolution for
.I (BSD)gettimeofday
is never worse than 100 HZ (which equals 10 milliseconds).
The actual resolution of
.IR (BSD)gettimeofday 
depends on the timer capability of the underlying hardware(see 
.I timers(5)).
.PP
The difference between the calls
.I gettimeofday(settimeofday)
and
.I BSDgettimeofday(BSDsettimeofday)
is the additional second argument
.I tzp
in the latter.
.PP
In IRIX, the time zone used by each process is determined by the TZ
environment variable.  The
.I tzp
argument is present in the BSD calls only for compatibility.
It cannot be used to
set the time zone for the system, and so must be zero for
.IR settimeofday .
If
.I tzp
is not zero,
.I BSDgettimeofday
will return an interpretation of the TIMEZONE
environment variable.
.PP
The structures pointed to by
.I tp
and
.I tzp
are defined in 
.I <sys/time.h>
as:
.PP
.nf
.RS 0
.DT
struct timeval {
	time_t	tv_sec;		/* seconds since Jan. 1, 1970 */
	long	tv_usec;		/* and microseconds */
};
.sp 1
struct timezone {
	int	tz_minuteswest;	/* of Greenwich */
	int	tz_dsttime;	/* type of dst correction to apply */
};
.RE
.fi
.PP
The 
.I timezone
structure indicates the local time zone
(measured in minutes of time westward from Greenwich),
and a flag that, if nonzero, indicates that
Daylight Saving time applies locally during
the appropriate part of the year.
.PP
Only the super-user may set the time of day or time zone.
.PP
These routines emulate the 4.3BSD system calls.
.SH RETURN
A 0 return value indicates that the call succeeded.
A \-1 return value indicates an error occurred, and in this
case an error code is stored into the global variable \f2errno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
The following error codes may be set in \f2errno\fP:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
An argument address referenced invalid memory.
.TP
[EPERM]
A user other than the super-user attempted to set the time.
.TP
[EINVAL]
An attempt to change the timezone was made.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
date(1), time(2), stime(2), ctime(3C),
see timers(5)
for details on the resolution.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
