'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.iconv_open @(#)iconv_open	41.5 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3.iconv_open @(#)nls 1.1
.\" Copyright 1991
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} iconv_open 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} iconv_open 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} iconv_open 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} iconv_open "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH "NAME"
\f4iconv_open\fP \- code conversion allocation function

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\f4#include <iconv.h>\fP
.PP
\f4iconv_t iconv_open(const char \(**tocode, const char \(**fromcode);\f1
.br

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \f4iconv_open\fP() function returns a conversion descriptor that
points to the suitable codeset converter. It describes a conversion
from the codeset specified by the string pointed to by the \f2fromcode\fP
argument to the codeset specified by the string pointed to by the
\f2tocode\fP argument.
A conversion descriptor can be used in a process until that process
closes it.
If a file descriptor is used to implement conversion descriptors,
the \f4FD_CLOEXEC\fP flag will be set; see \f4<fcntl.h>\fP. 
.br
.P
The \f4iconv_open\fP()  function may fail under the following 
conditions and set \f4errno\fP to the suitable value.

.TP
\f4[EMFILE]\f1    

\f4{OPEN_MAX}\fP files descriptors are currently open in the 
calling process.

.TP
\f4[ENFILE]\f1    

There are too many files which is currently open in the system.

.TP
\f4[ENOMEM]\f1    

Sufficient storage space is not available.

.TP
\f4[EINVAL]\f1    

The conversion specified by \f2fromcode\fP and \f2tocode\fP is not 
supported by the implementation.
.P
.br

The \f4iconv_open\fP() function returns a conversion descriptor
for use on subsequent calls to \f4iconv\fP(), upon successful
completion. Otherwise \f4iconv_open\fP() returns \f4(iconv_t)-1\fP
and sets \f4errno\fP to indicate the error.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\f4iconv\fP() , \f4iconv_close\fP().
