'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3.isnand @(#)isnan	40.13 of 10/27/89
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} isnan 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} isnan 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} isnan 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} isnan "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4isnan\fP, \f4isnand\fP, \f4isnanf\fP, \f4finite\fP, \f4fpclass\fP, \f4unordered\fP, \f4isnanl\fP, \f4finitel\fP, \f4fpclassl\fP, \f4unorderedl \fP\- determine type of floating-point number
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4\#include <ieeefp.h>
.PP
\f4int isnand (double dsrc);\f1
.PP
\f4int isnanf (float fsrc);\f1
.PP
\f4int finite (double dsrc);\f1
.PP
\f4fpclass_t fpclass (double dsrc);\f1
.PP
\f4int unordered (double dsrc1, double dsrc2);\f1
.PP
\f4fpclass_t fpclassl (long double dsrc);\f1
.PP
\f4int finitel (long double dsrc);\f1
.PP
\f4int unorderedl (long double dsrc1, long double dsrc2);\f1
.PP
\f4\#include <math.h>
.PP
\f4int isnan (double dsrc);\f1
.PP
\f4int isnanl (long double dsrc);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
(Note that the long double routines are only valid for the MIPSpro
compilers.)
Long double functions have been renamed to be compliant with
the ANSI-C standard, however to be backward compatible, they
may still be called with the double precision function name
prefixed with a q.  (Exception:  function
\f2isnanl\fP
may be called
with the name
\f2isnanq\fP.)
.PP
\f4isnan\f1, \f4isnand\f1,
\f4isnanf\f1,
and
\f4isnanl\f1
return true (1) if the argument
.I dsrc
or
.I fsrc
is a NaN; 
otherwise they return false (0).
The functionality of \f4isnan\f1 is identical to that of \f4isnand\f1.
.PP
\f4fpclass\f1
and
\f4fpclassl\f1
return the class the
.I dsrc
belongs to.
The 10 possible classes are as follows:
.sp .5
.RS
.TS
l l.
\s-1FP_SNAN\s0	signaling NaN
\s-1FP_QNAN\s0	quiet NaN
\s-1FP_NINF\s0	negative infinity
\s-1FP_PINF\s0	positive infinity
\s-1FP_NDENORM\s0	negative denormalized non-zero
\s-1FP_PDENORM\s0	positive denormalized non-zero
\s-1FP_NZERO\s0	negative zero
\s-1FP_PZERO\s0	positive zero
\s-1FP_NNORM\s0	negative normalized non-zero
\s-1FP_PNORM\s0	positive normalized non-zero
.TE
.RE
.sp .5
.PP
In the case of long doubles, non-zero numbers less than
2**-916 in absolute value are classified as denormalized,
since one of the numbers used in their representation
may be a denormal double.
.PP
\f4finite\f1
and
\f4finitel\f1
return true (1) if the argument
.I dsrc
is neither infinity nor NaN;
otherwise they return false (0).
.PP
\f4unordered\f1
and
\f4unorderedl\f1
return true (1) if one of their two arguments is unordered
with respect to the other argument.  This is equivalent
to reporting whether either argument is NaN.  If neither
of the arguments is NaN, false (0) is returned.
.PP
None of these routines generate any exceptions, even for signaling NaNs.
.PP
Note that the SVR4 function
\f4fpclass\fP
is distinct from the functions documented in
.IR fp_class (3C).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4fpgetround\f1(3C),
\f4fp_class\f1(3C),
\f4intro\f1(3M).
