'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.lockf @(#)lockf	30.8 of 3/25/86
.nr X
.Op c p a
.if \nX=0 .ds x} LOCKF 3C "C Programming Language Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} LOCKF 3C "C Programming Language Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} LOCKF 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} LOCKF "" "" "\&"
.Op
.Op f
.if \nX=0 .ds x} LOCKF 3F "Fortran Programming Language Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} LOCKF 3F "Fortran Programming Language Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} LOCKF 3F "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} LOCKF "" "" "\&"
.Op
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
lockf \- record locking on files
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.PP
.B "int lockf (int fildes, int function, off_t size);"
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.PP
.B "integer size"
.br
.B "external function"
.br
.B "integer function"
.br
.B "lockf (lun, function, size)"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2lockf\f1 command will allow sections of a file
to be locked; advisory or mandatory write locks depending 
on the mode bits of the file [see \f2chmod\f1(2)].
Locking calls from other processes which attempt
to lock the locked file section will
either return an error value or be put to sleep until the resource
becomes unlocked.
All the locks for a process are removed when the process terminates.
[See \f2fcntl\f1(2) for more information about record locking.]
.PP
.Op c p a
\f2Fildes\f1 is an open file descriptor.
The file descriptor must have
.SM O_WRONLY
or
.SM O_RDWR
permission in order to establish lock with this function call.
.Op
.Op f
\f2lun\f1 is an open logical unit.
The logical unit must not have been opened \f2READONLY\f1
in order to establish lock with this function call.
.Op
.PP
\f2Function\f1 is a control value which specifies the action to be taken.
The permissible values for \f2function\f1 are defined in \f3<unistd.h>\f1
as follows:
.br
.sp
.TS
l l l l.
#define	F_ULOCK	0	/\(** Unlock a previously locked section \(**/
#define	F_LOCK	1	/\(** Lock a section for exclusive use \(**/
#define	F_TLOCK	2	/\(** Test and lock a section for exclusive use \(**/
#define	F_TEST	3	/\(** Test section for other processes locks \(**/
.TE
.sp
.PP
All other values of \f2function\f1 are reserved for future extensions and will
result in an error return if not implemented.
.PP
.SM F_TEST
is used to detect if a lock by another process is
present on the specified section.
.SM F_LOCK
and
.SM F_TLOCK
both lock a section of a file if the section is available.
.SM F_ULOCK
removes locks from a section of the file.
.PP
\f2Size\f1 is the number of contiguous bytes to be locked or unlocked.
The resource to be locked starts at the current offset in the file and extends forward
for a positive size and backward for a negative size (the preceding bytes up to but
not including the current offset).
If \f2size\f1 is zero, the section from the current offset through the largest file
offset is locked (i.e., from the current offset through the
present or any future end-of-file).
An area need not be allocated to the file in order to be locked as such locks
may exist past the end-of-file.
.PP
The sections locked with
.SM F_LOCK
or
.SM F_TLOCK
may, in whole or in part,
contain or be contained by a previously locked section for the same process.
When this occurs,
or if adjacent sections occur,
the sections are combined into a single section.
If the request requires that a new element be added to the table of active
locks and this table is already full,
an error is returned,
and the new section is not locked.
.PP
.SM F_LOCK
and
.SM F_TLOCK
requests differ only by the action taken if the resource
is not available.
.SM F_LOCK
will cause the calling process to sleep until the resource is available.
.SM F_TLOCK
will cause the function to return
.Op c p a
a \-1
.Op
.Op f
an error
.Op
and set
\f2errno\f1 to
.SM [EACCES]
error if the section is already locked by another process.
.PP
.SM F_ULOCK
requests may, in whole or in part,
release one or more locked sections controlled by the process.
When sections are not fully released,
the remaining sections are still locked by the process.
Releasing the center section of a locked section requires an additional element in the table
of active locks.
If this table is full,
an
.SM [EDEADLK]
error is returned and the requested section is not released.
.PP
A potential for deadlock occurs if a process controlling a locked
resource is put to sleep by accessing another process's locked resource.
Thus calls to \f2lockf\f1 or \f2fcntl\f1 scan
for a deadlock prior to sleeping on a locked resource.
An error return is made if sleeping on the locked resource would cause a deadlock.
.PP
Sleeping on a resource is interrupted with any signal.
The \f2alarm\f1(2) command may be used to provide a timeout facility
in applications which require this facility.
.PP
The \f2lockf\f1 utility will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.br
.sp
.TP
.SM [EBADF]
.Op c p a
\f2Fildes\f1
.Op
.Op f
\f2lun\f1
.Op
is not a valid open file.
.TP
.SM [EACCES]
\f2Cmd\f1 is
.SM F_TLOCK
or
.SM F_TEST
and the section is already locked by another process.
.TP
.SM [EDEADLK]
\f2Cmd\f1 is
.SM F_LOCK
and a deadlock would occur.
Also the \f2cmd\f1 is either 
.SM F_LOCK,
.SM F_TLOCK,
or
.SM F_ULOCK
and the number of entries in the lock table
would exceed the number allocated on the system.
.SH NOTES
Locks are on files, not file descriptors.  That is, file descriptors
duplicated through
.IR dup (3C)
do not result in multiple instances of locks, but rather multiple
references to the same locks.
Thus if any of the descriptors associated with the same file are closed,
the locks associated with the file are lost.
.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(2),
close(2),
creat(2),
fcntl(2),
intro(2),
open(2),
.Op f
perror(3F),
.Op
read(2),
write(2).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion,
a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a 
.Op c p a
value of \-1
.Op
.Op f
nonzero value
.Op
is returned and \f2errno\f1 is set to
indicate the error.
.SH WARNINGS
Unexpected results may occur in processes that do buffering
in the user address space.
The process may later read/write data which is/was locked.
The standard I/O package is the most common source of
unexpected buffering.
.sp
Because in the future the variable \f2errno\f1 will be
set to 
.SM EAGAIN
rather than
.SM EACCES
when a section of a file is already locked by another process,
portable application programs should expect and test for either value.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.att
.Ee
