'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3C.mac_cleared
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} MAC_CLEARED 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} MAC_CLEARED 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} MAC_CLEARED 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} MAC_CLEARED "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
mac_cleared, mac_clearedlbl, mac_cleared_fl, mac_cleared_fs, mac_cleared_pl, mac_cleared_ps \- report on user's clearance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <clearance.h>
.PP
.B "int mac_cleared (const struct clearance *clp, const char *lblstr);"
.PP
.B "int mac_clearedlbl (const struct clearance *clp, mac_t macp);"
.PP
.B "int mac_cleared_fl (const struct clearance *clp, mac_t macp);"
.PP
.B "int mac_cleared_fs (const struct clearance *, const char *lblstr);"
.PP
.B "int mac_cleared_pl (const struct clearance *clp, mac_t macp);"
.PP
.B "int mac_cleared_ps (const struct clearance *, const char *lblstr);"
.PP
.B "char \(**mac_clearance_error (int err);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImac_cleared\fP and \fImac_clearedlbl\fP
return a value indicating whether the user is cleared for the label 
pointed to by the input argument \fIlblstr\fP or \fImacp\fP, respectively.
The user's clearance range is defined by the structure pointed to by
the input argument \fIclp\fP.
If the user is cleared,
.B MAC_CLEARED
is returned.
\fImac_cleared\fP is equivalent to \fBmac_cleared_ps(clp, lblstr)\fP.
\fImac_clearedlbl\fP is equivalent to \fBmac_cleared_pl(clp, macp)\fP.
.PP
\fImac_cleared_fl\fP checks MAC clearance for setting labels on
\'f\'iles given a \'l\'abel. If the user is cleared,
.B MAC_CLEARED
is returned.
.PP
\fImac_cleared_pl\fP checks MAC clearance for setting labels on
\'p\'rocesses given a \'l\'abel. If the user is cleared,
.B MAC_CLEARED
is returned.
.PP
\fImac_cleared_fl\fP checks MAC clearance for setting labels on
\'f\'iles given a \'l\'abel. If the user is cleared,
.B MAC_CLEARED
is returned.
.PP
\fImac_cleared_fs\fP checks MAC clearance for setting labels on
\'f\'iles given a \'s\'tring. If the user is cleared,
.B MAC_CLEARED
is returned.
.PP
\fImac_clearance_error\fP translates one of the error values returned by
the MAC clearance functions into string form.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I mac_cleared,
.I mac_clearedlbl,
.I mac_cleared_fl,
.I mac_cleared_pl,
.I mac_cleared_fs,
and
.I mac_cleared_ps
return
.TP 30
[MAC_NULL_USER_INFO]
The 
.I clp
argument is
.B NULL.
.TP 30
[MAC_NULL_REQD_LBL]
The label argument is
.B NULL
or the user's clearance label is
.B NULL.
.TP 30
[MAC_BAD_REQD_LBL]
The user's requested label is invalid.
.TP 30
[MAC_MSEN_EQUAL]
Nobody can login at MSEN_EQUAL.
.TP 30
[MAC_MINT_EQUAL]
Only root can login at MINT_EQUAL.
.TP 30
[MAC_BAD_USER_INFO]
Bad clearance field in the 
.I /etc/clearance
file.
.TP 30
[MAC_BAD_RANGE]
Bad label range in the clearance 
field in the 
.I /etc/clearance
file.
.TP 30
[MAC_BAD_NULL_CLEARANCE]
No clearance field in the
.I /etc/clearance
file.
.TP 30
[MAC_LBL_TOO_LOW]
Only the low bound of the user's
clearance range(s) is not dominated
by the user's requested label.
.TP 30
[MAC_LBL_TOO_HIGH]
Only the high bound of the user's
clearance range(s) does not dominate
the user's requested label.
.TP 30
[MAC_INCOMPARABLE]
If there is an error with the low and
high label in the user's clearance
range(s), or if the requested label is
above and below the clearance range(s).
.TP 30
[MAC_NO_MEM]
No memory available.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dominance(5)
.SH "NOTE"
This is a non-POSIX interface, and will not be supported in
future releases of Trusted IRIX.
