'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3C.mac_get_fd
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} MAC_GET_FD 3C "POSIX MAC Support" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} MAC_GET_FD 3C "POSIX MAC Support"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} MAC_GET_FD 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} MAC_GET_FD "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
mac_get_fd, mac_set_fd \- get the MAC label associated with an open file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/mac.h>
.PP
.B mac_t mac_get_fd(int fd);
.br
.B int mac_set_fd(int fd, mac_t macp);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mac_get_fd
returns a \f2mac_t\fP, a pointer to an allocated \f2struct mac_label\fP associated with the
open file referred to by \f2fd\fP.
If
.B _POSIX_MAC
is in effect, then the process must have MAC read access to the object.
.PP
.I mac_set_fd
sets the MAC label for the open file referred to by \f2fd\fP from the
\f2mac_t\fP pointed to by \f2macp\fP.
The effective UID of the process must match the owner of the object or the
process must have appropriate privilege to set the access MAC on the
object. If
.B _POSIX_CAP
is in effect, then the appropriate capability must include CAP_FOWNER.
In addition, if
.B _POSIX_MAC
is in effect, then the process must have MAC write access to the object.
\f2mac_set_fd\fP
function will succeed only if the MAC
is valid as defined by the
\f2mac_valid\fP(3c)
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.I mac_get_fd
returns a pointer to an allocated \f2mac_t\fP if successful, NULL otherwise.
The storage should be freed with a call to \f2mac_free\fP with the returned
pointer as an argument when it is no longer needed.
.PP
.I mac_set_fd
returns 0 if successful, -1 otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.I mac_get_fd:
.TP 16
EACCESS
Access to the object is denied.
.TP 16
EBADF
\f2fd\fP is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 16
ENOMEM
allocation of the \f2mac_t\fP failed.
.TP 16
ENOSYS
MAC support is not available (not installed).
.PP
.I mac_set_fd:
.TP 16
EACCESS
Access to the object is denied.
.TP 16
EBADF
\f2fd\fP is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 16
EINVAL
the MAC label is not valid.
.TP 16
ENOSPC
The file system is full or some other resource needed for the MAC storage
is not available.
.TP 16
ENOSYS
MAC support is not available (not installed).
.TP 16
EPERM
The process does not have appropriate privilege to
perform the operation to set the MAC.
.TP 16
EROFS
This function requires modification of a file system which is currently
read-only.
