'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3C.mac_get_file
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} MAC_GET_FILE 3C "POSIX MAC Support" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} MAC_GET_FILE 3C "POSIX MAC Support"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} MAC_GET_FILE 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} MAC_GET_FILE "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
.upperok
mac_get_file, mac_set_file  \- get or set the MAC label for a pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/mac.h>
.PP
.B mac_t mac_get_file(const char *path);
.br
.B "int mac_set_file(const char *path, mac_t macp);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mac_get_file
returns a \f2mac_t\fP, a pointer to an allocated \f2struct mac_label\fP
associated with the
pathname pointed to by \f2path\fP.
If
.B _POSIX_MAC
is in effect, then the process must have MAC read access to the object.
.PP
.I mac_set_file
sets the MAC label of the specified pathname.  
The MAC label is first checked for validity by
\f2mac_valid\fP(3c).
The effective UID of the process must match the owner of the object
or the process must have appropriate privilege to set the MAC label of
\f2path\fP.
If
.B _POSIX_CAP
is in effect, then the appropriate capability must include CAP_FOWNER.
In addition, if
.B _POSIX_MAC
is in effect, then the process must have MAC write access to the object.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.I mac_get_file
a pointer to an allocated \f2mac_t\fP if successful, NULL otherwise.
The storage should be freed with a call to \f2mac_free\fP with the returned
pointer as an argument when it is no longer needed.
.PP
.I mac_set_file
returns 0 if successful, -1 otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.I mac_get_file:
.TP 16
EACCESS
Search permission is denied for a component
of the path prefix or the object exists and the process does not have
appropriate access rights.
.TP 16
ENAMETOLONG
The pathname or one of its components is too long.
.TP 16
ENOENT
The named object does not exist or \f2path\fP points to an empty string.
.TP 16
ENOMEM
allocation of the \f2mac_t\fP failed.
.TP 16
ENOSYS
MAC support is not available (not installed).
.TP 16
ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.PP
.I mac_set_file:
.TP 16
EACCESS
Search permission is denied for a component
of the path prefix or the object exists and the process does not have
appropriate access rights.
.TP 16
EINVAL
\f2macp\fP points to an invalid MAC label.
.TP 16
ENAMETOLONG
The pathname or one of its components is too long.
.TP 16
ENOENT
The named object does not exist or \f2path\fP points to an empty string.
.TP 16
ENOSPC
The file system is full or some other resource needed for the MAC storage
is not available.
.TP 16
ENOSYS
MAC support is not available (not installed).
.TP 16
ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 16
EPERM
The process does not have appropriate privilege to
perform the operation to set the MAC.
.TP 16
EROFS
This function requires modification of a file system which is currently
read-only.
