'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.makecontext @(#)makecontext	40.21 of 1/3/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} makecontext 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} makecontext 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} makecontext 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} makecontext "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4makecontext\f1, \f4swapcontext\f1 \- manipulate user contexts
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <ucontext.h>\f1
.PP
\f4void makecontext (ucontext_t \(**\f2ucp\fP, (void(\(**)())\f2func\fP, int \f2argc\fP,...);\f1
.PP
\f4int swapcontext (ucontext_t \(**\f2oucp\fP, ucontext_t \(**\f2ucp\fP);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These functions are useful for implementing user-level context switching
between multiple threads of control within a process.
.PP
\f4makecontext\fP modifies the context specified by \f2ucp\fP,
which has been initialized using \f4getcontext\fP; when this 
context is resumed using \f4swapcontext\fP or \f4setcontext\fP 
[see \f4getcontext\fP(2)], program execution continues by 
calling the function \f2func\fP, passing it the arguments
that follow \f2argc\fP in the 
\f4makecontext\fP call.
Before a call is made to \f4makecontext\fP, the context being modified
should have a stack allocated for it.
The integer value of \f2argc\f1 must match
the number of arguments that follow \f2argc\f1.
\%Otherwise the behavior is undefined.
.P
The \f4uc_link\fP field is used to determine the context that will be
resumed when the context being modified by \f4makecontext\fP returns. 
The \f4uc_link\fP field should be initialized prior to the call to
\f4makecontext\fP.
.PP
\f4swapcontext\fP
saves the current context in the context structure pointed to by
.IR oucp\^
and sets the context to the context structure pointed to by
.IR ucp .
.PP
These functions will fail if either of the following is true:
.TP 15
\f4ENOMEM\fP
\f2ucp\f1 does not have enough stack left to complete the operation.
.TP
\f4EFAULT\fP
\f2ucp\f1 or \f2oucp\f1 points to an invalid address.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4exit\fP(2), \f4getcontext\fP(2), \f4sigaction\fP(2), \f4sigprocmask\fP(2), \f4ucontext\fP(5).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
On successful completion, \f4swapcontext\f1 return a value of zero.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \f4errno\f1 is set to
indicate the error.
.SH BUGS
Due to the procedure calling conventions on the MIPS processor and restrictions
of \f4stdarg\fP(5), the arguments that follow the \f2argc\fP parameter for
\f4makecontext\fP are restricted to longs and pointers only.
.SH NOTES
The size of the 
\f4ucontext_t\fP
structure may change in future releases.  To remain binary compatible, 
users of these features must always use \f4makecontext\fP or \f4getcontext\fP to
create new instances of them.
.\"	@(#)makecontext.3c	40.6 of 9/27/88
.Ee
