'\"macro stdmacro
.TH mldset 3
.SH NAME
mldset_create, mldset_destroy, mldset_place \- mldset operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "#include <sys/types.h>"
.B "#include <sys/pmo.h>"
.PP
.B "pmo_handle_t mldset_create(pmo_handle_t* mldlist, int mldlist_len)"
.PP
.B "int mldset_destroy(pmo_handle_t mldset_handle)"
.PP
\fB
int mldset_place(pmo_handle_t mldset_handle,
                 topology_type_t topology_type,
                 raff_info_t* rafflist,
                 int rafflist_len,
                 rqmode_t rqmode)
\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mldset_create\fP creates a memory locality domain set.
.PP
\f4mldset_destroy\fP destroys a memory locality domain set.
.PP
\f4mldset_place\fP places a memory locality domain set
.PP
\f4mldset_create\fP
will fail and no MLD set will not be created if one or more of the following
are true:
.TP 15
\f4EFAULT\fP
Arguments could not be copied into kernel space.
.TP 15
\f4EFAULT\fP
The MLD list is NULL.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The MLD list length is less than 1.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
An MLD in the MLD list does not exist or is invalid.
.TP 15
\f4ENOMEM\fP
No memory is available to create the MLD set.
.TP 15
\f4ENOTSUP\fP
Memory locality domains are not supported on this system architecture.
.PP
\f4mldset_destroy\fP
will fail and no MLD set will not be created if one or more of the following
are true:
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The specified \f4mldset_handle\fP is invalid or does not exist.
.TP 15
\f4ENOTSUP\fP
Memory locality domains are not supported on this system architecture.
.PP
\f4mldset_place\fP
will fail and the MLD set will not be placed if one or more of the following
are true:
.TP 15
\f4EFAULT\fP
Arguments could not be copied into kernel space.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The specified \f4mldset_handle\fP is invalid or does not exist.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The specified topology is invalid.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The specified rafflist length is non-zero, but the rafflist pointer is NULL.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The rafflist pointer is non-NULL, but the specified rafflist length zero.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The member of the rafflist is NULL.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
Mandatory rafflist placement could not be satisfied.
.TP 15
\f4EINVAL\fP
The specified rqmode has invalid hint bits set.
.TP 15
\f4ENOMEM\fP
No memory is available to place the MLD set.
.TP 15
\f4ENOTSUP\fP
Memory locality domains are not supported on this system architecture.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
numa(5), mmci(5), mld(3c), pm(3c), migration(3c).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f4mldset_create\fP returns a value of type
pmo_handle_t, \f4mldset_destroy\fP and \f4mldset_place\fP return 0.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno\^
is set to indicate the error.
