'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH 2/gen/mq_close @(#)close	43.5 of 8/4/92
.\" Copyright 1992, 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990, 1989 AT&T
.TH mq_close 3c
.SH NAME
\f4mq_close\f1 \- close a message queue descriptor
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <mqueue.h>\f1
.PP
\f4mqd_t mq_close (mqd_t \f2mqd\fP);\f1
.Op
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mq_close\fP
closes the connection between message queue descriptor, \f2mqd\fP, and
its associated queue. The descriptor, \f2mqd\fP, should have been obtained
from a prior call to \f4mq_open\fP(3c). No messages are added or removed
from the queue.
.P
If multiple threads within a common process (i.e., sprocs, pthreads)
are sharing \f2mqd\fP, a single call to \f4mq_close\fP will close the
message queue for all threads within the calling process.
.P
If the process has a notification request attached [see \f4mq_notify\fP(3c)]
to the queue, the notification request is removed and the queue is
available for attachment of a notification request.
.P
If this is the last queue descriptor associated with the queue and the
queue has been unlinked [see \f4mq_unlink\fP(3c)] earlier, the message
queue will be removed.
.P
\f4mq_close\fP
will fail if one or more of the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The message queue descriptor, \f2mqd\fP, is not valid.
.TP
[EINTR]
A signal interrupted the
\f4mq_close\fP
function call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4mq_open\fP(3c),
\f4open\fP(3c),
\f4intro\fP(3c),
\f4mq_unlink\fP(3c),
\f4mq_receive\fP(3c),
\f4mq_send\fP(3c),
\f4mq_getattr\fP(3c),
\f4mq_setattr\fP(3c),
\f4mq_notify\fP(3c)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
