'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH 2/gen/mq_getattr @(#)mq_getattr	43.5 of 8/4/92
.\" Copyright 1992, 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990, 1989 AT&T
.TH mq_getattr 3c
.SH NAME
\f4mq_getattr\f1 \- get attributes of a message queue
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <mqueue.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int mq_getattr (mqd_t \f2mqd\fP, struct mq_attr *\f2mqstat\fP);\f1
.Op
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mq_getattr\fP
saves the attributes and status information of the message queue named
by \f2mqd\fP into the \f2mq_attr\fP structure at address \f2mqstat\fP.
The following fields of the \f2mq_attr\fP structure are updated after a
successful call to \f4mq_getattr\fP:
.P
.RS 3
.nf
.ft 4
.ta 22n
long mq_flags;		/\(** message queue flags \(**/
long mq_maxmsg;		/\(** maximum number of messages \(**/
long mq_msgsize;	/\(** maximum size of a message\(**/
long mq_curmsgs;	/\(** number of messages currently on queue \(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.Op
.RE
.DT
.PP
.RS 0
The fields have the following meanings:
.TP 1i
\f4mq_flags\f1
The set of flags which may be applied to the message queue on a
queue descriptor \f2mqd\fP basis, rather than to the queue itself.
The following flags are supported:
.sp
\f4O_NONBLOCK\fP 
If set, \f4mq_send\fP and \f4mq_receive\fP operations on the queue
named by \f2mqd\fP will not block when the queue is full or empty, respectively.
.TP
\f4mq_maxmsg\f1
The maximum number of messages that can be queued at any one time.
\f4mq_send\fP
will fail, if O_NONBLOCK flag is set, or block after this many messages are
queued. This attribute of the queue can be set only at time of queue creation.
.TP
\f4mq_msgsize\f1
The maximum size of a message that can be sent to or received from the queue.
This attribute of the queue can be set only at the time of queue creation.
.TP
\f4mq_curmsgs\f1
The number of messages currently on the message queue. This attribute can only
be queried and cannot be explicitly set.
.P
\f4mq_getattr\fP
will fail if one or more of the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The message queue descriptor, \f2mqd\fP, is not valid.
.TP
[EINTR]
A signal interrupted the
\f4mq_getattr\fP
function call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4mq_open\fP(3c),
\f4intro\fP(3c),
\f4mq_unlink\fP(3c),
\f4mq_receive\fP(3c),
\f4mq_send\fP(3c),
\f4mq_setattr\fP(3c),
\f4mq_notify\fP(3c)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned and the attributes
of the queue are written into the \f2mq_attr\fP structure pointed to by
\f2mqstat\fP.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
