'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH 2/gen/mq_receive @(#)mq_receive	43.5 of 8/4/92
.\" Copyright 1992, 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990, 1989 AT&T
.TH mq_receive 3c
.SH NAME
\f4mq_receive\f1 \- receive a message from a queue
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <mqueue.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int mq_receive (mqd_t \f2mqd\fP, char *\f2msgptr\fP, size_t \f2msglen\fP, unsigned int *\f2msgprio\fP);\f1
.Op
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mq_receive\fP 
removes a message, of size \f2msglen\fP bytes, from the message queue named
by the \f2mqd\fP descriptor, and copies it to the buffer at address
\f2msgptr\fP.
.P
Messages are removed in priority order with higher priority
messages removed before the lower priority messages. The larger the
numerical value of the priority, the more important the message.
If the argument \f2msgprio\fP is not NULL, the
priority of the message removed is stored at address \f2msgprio\fP.
Messages of equal priority are removed in FIFO order.
.P
If the \fBO_NONBLOCK\fP flag is set for the \f2mdq\fP message queue descriptor,
\f4mq_receive\fP will not block when the queue is empty
[see \f4mq_setattr\fP(3c)].
Otherwise, \f4mq_receive\fP will block until either a message is present in the
queue, or \f4mq_receive\fP is interrupted by a signal.
.P
If multiple processes are waiting to receive a message from the queue,
the highest priority process will receive the message when it is delivered.
Processes with equal priorities, blocked waiting for messages, are unblocked
in FIFO order when messages arrive.
.P
\f4mq_receive\fP
will fail if one or more of the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
[EAGAIN]
The \fBO_NONBLOCK\fP flag is set for the \f2mqd\fP queue descriptor
and the queue is empty.
.TP
[EBADF]
The message queue descriptor, \f2mqd\fP, is not valid or the queue
was not opened for reading.
.TP
[EINTR]
The \f4mq_receive\fP system call was interrupted by a signal.
.TP
[EMSGSIZE]
The size of the buffer, \f2msglen\fP, is less than the value of
the \f2mq_maxsize\fP attribute of the queue.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4mq_open\fP(3c),
\f4intro\fP(3c),
\f4mq_unlink\fP(3c),
\f4mq_send\fP(3c),
\f4mq_getattr\fP(3c),
\f4mq_notify\fP(3c)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, \f2mq_receive\fP returns the number of bytes
in the message received, with the message copied to the buffer pointed to
by \f2msgptr\fP
and the priority of the message stored in the location pointed to by
\f2msgprio\fP.
Otherwise, no message is removed from the queue and a value of \-1 is
returned and \f4errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
