'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH 2/gen/mq_send @(#)mq_send	43.5 of 8/4/92
.\" Copyright 1992, 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990, 1989 AT&T
.TH mq_send 3c
.SH NAME
\f4mq_send\f1 \- send a message to a queue
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <mqueue.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int mq_send (mqd_t \f2mqd\fP, const char *\f2msgptr\fP, size_t \f2msglen\fP, unsigned int \f2msg_prio\fP);\f1
.Op
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mq_send\fP
sends the message at address \f2msgptr\fP, of size \f2msglen\fP bytes, to
the message queue named by \f2mqd\fP.
.P
The message is queued in priority order, as specified by \f2msgprio\fP.
The larger the numerical value of the priority, the more important the
message. Messages with same priorities are queued in FIFO order.
The value of \f2msgprio\fP must be less than {\f4MQ_PRIO_MAX\fP}.
.P
A message queue is full when the number of the messages queued equals the
value the of \f2mq_maxmsg\fP attribute of the queue. If the \fBO_NONBLOCK\fP
flag is set for the message queue descriptor \f2mqd\fP, \f4mq_send\fP
will not block when the queue is full [see \f4mq_setattr\fP(3c)].
Otherwise, \f4mq_send\fP will block until either space becomes available
to queue the message, or \f4mq_send\fP is interrupted by a signal.
.P
If multiple processes are waiting to send a message to the queue,
the highest priority process will be unblocked to queue its message
when space becomes available. Processes with equal priorities, blocked
waiting to queue a message, are unblocked in FIFO order when queue space
becomes available.
.P
\f4mq_send\fP
will fail if one or more of the following conditions are true:
.TP 15
[EAGAIN]
The \f4O_NONBLOCK\fP flag is set for the queue descriptor and the queue is
full.
.TP
[EBADF]
The message queue descriptor, \f2mqd\fP, is not valid or the queue
was not opened for writing.
.TP
[EINTR]
The \f4mq_send\fP system call was interrupted by a signal.
.TP
[EINVAL]
The value of \f2msgprio\fP is not less than {\f4MQ_PRIO_MAX\fP}.
.TP
[EMSGSIZE]
The size of the message, \f2msglen\fP, is greater than the value of
the \f2mq_maxsize\fP attribute of the queue.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4mq_open\fP(3c),
\f4intro\fP(3c),
\f4mq_unlink\fP(3c),
\f4mq_receive\fP(3c),
\f4mq_getattr\fP(3c),
\f4mq_notify\fP(3c),
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned and the message is
added to the queue.
Otherwise, the message is not added to the queue, a value of \-1 is
returned and \f4errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
