.TH openproj 3c
.SH NAME
openproj, closeproj \- create/destroy a \f3PROJ\f1 token
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <proj.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3PROJ openproj(const char *project, const char *projid);\f1
.sp .8v
\f3void closeproj(PROJ token);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2opendir\f1 function is used to create a \f3PROJ\f1 token.
The \f2closedir\f1 function is used to destroy it when it is no longer
needed.
.PP
The \f2getprojuser\f1 family of functions (including
\f2projid\f1, \f2projname\f1, \f2getprojall\f1, \f2getprojuser\f1,
\f2getdfltprojuser\f1 and \f2validateproj\f1) is used to extract
information from the \f3project\f1 and \f3projid\f1 files.
Because these functions open, read, and close the \f3project\f1 and
\f3projid\f1 files, they can be inefficient if it is necessary to
use them repeatedly in the same program.
Therefore, a second set of parallel functions is provided that is
slightly more complex to use but runs more efficiently
and is appropriate when repeated queries to the
\f3project\fP and \f3projid\fP files are required.
.PP
The second set of functions makes use of a \f3PROJ\f1 token to
maintain various state information that reduces the overhead
associated with repeated accesses to the \f3project\fP and
\f3projid\fP files.
These functions are identical to their "simple"
counterparts with the following exceptions:
.IP
The function names are prefixed with the letter "f".
.IP
An additional argument, the \f3PROJ\fP token itself, is included at the
beginning of each function's argument list.
.PP
The \f2openproj\fP function is used to create the \f3PROJ\fP token.
It takes two arguments, the pathnames to the \f3project\fP and
\f3projid\fP files.
NULL can be specified for either or both of these arguments, in
which case the system default pathnames (\f3/etc/project\fP and
\f3/etc/projid\fP, respectively) will be used.
The \f2closeproj\fP function can be used to delete the \f3PROJ\fP
token and release any resources associated with it when processing is
finished.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
\f3/etc/project\f1
System project authorization file.
.TP
\f3/etc/projid\f1
System project name to project ID mappings.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getdfltprojuser(3C),
getprojall(3C),
getprojuser(3C),
projid(3C),
validateproj(3C),
project(4),
projid(4),
projects(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f2openproj\fP returns a \f3PROJ\fP token if successful, or
NULL if not.
.SH BUGS
Both functions use
\f2fopen\f1(3S)
and are thus subject to its limitations.
.PP
Project information should be (optionally) obtained via NIS.
