.TH projid 3c
.SH NAME
projid, projname, fprojid, fprojname \- get project ID information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <proj.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3prid_t projid(const char *name);\f1
\f3int    projname(prid_t prid, char *buf, size_t len);\f1
.sp .8v
\f3prid_t fprojid(PROJ token, const char *name);\f1
\f3int    fprojname(PROJ token, prid_t prid, char *buf, \c
size_t len);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2projid\fP, \f2projname\fP and \f2getprojall\fP functions are
used to obtain information from the \f3projid\fP file.
The \f2projid\fP function searches the \f3projid\fP file for the
project \f2name\fP and returns the corresponding numeric project ID.
The \f2projname\fP function searches the \f3projid\fP file for the
project ID \f2prid\fP and stores the corresponding ASCII name
in the buffer \f2buf\fP, up to a maximum of \f2len\fP-1 characters.
The resulting string will always be null-terminated.
.PP
The \f2fprojid\fP and \f2fprojname\fP functions are
variants of \f2projid\fP and \f2projname\fP that use a \f3PROJ\fP
token to make them more efficient for repeated use.
Otherwise their operation is identical.
For more details on creating a \f3PROJ\fP token, see \f2openproj\f1(3C).
.SH FILES
.TP 15
\f3/etc/projid\fP
System project name to project ID mappings.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
closeproj(3C),
getprojall(3C),
getprojuser(3C),
openproj(3C),
projid(4),
projects(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f2projid\fP and \f2fprojid\fP
return the appropriate project ID if successful, or -1 if not.
.PP
\f2projname\fP and
\f2fprojname\fP
return 1 if successful, 0 if not.
.SH BUGS
Both functions use \f2fopen\f1(3S) and are thus subject to its limitations.
.PP
Project ID information should be (optionally) obtained via NIS.
