'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.rand @(#)rand	40.11 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} rand 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} rand 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} rand 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} rand "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4rand\f1, \f4srand\f1, \f4rand_r\f1 \- simple random-number generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <stdlib.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int rand (void);\f1
.PP
\f4int rand_r (unsigned int \(**seed);\f1
.PP
\f4void srand (unsigned int seed);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4rand\fP
uses a multiplicative congruent
random-number generator
.if t with period 2\u\s-232\s0\d
.if n with period 2^32
that returns successive pseudo-random
.if t numbers in the range from 0 to \f4RAND_MAX\fP (defined in \f4stdlib.h\fP).
.if n numbers in the range from 0 to (2^15)-1.
.PP
The function \f4srand\f1 uses the argument \f2seed\fP as a seed for a new
sequence of pseudo-random numbers to be returned by subsequent calls to the
function \f4rand\f1.
If the function \f4srand\f1 is then called with the same \f2seed\fP value, the
sequence of pseudo-random numbers will be repeated.
If the function \f4rand\f1 is called before any calls to
\f4srand\f1 have been made, the same sequence will be generated as when
\f4srand\f1 is first called with a \f2seed\fP value of 1. 
.PP
\f4rand_r\f1
is a reentrant version of \f4rand\fP.
If \f4rand_r\fP is called with the same initial value for \f2\(**seed\fP
and the value of \f2\(**seed\fP is not changed between successive
returns and calls to \f4rand_r\fP, the same sequence shall be generated.
This function is useful when multiple threads in a process each
wish to get their own repeatable pseudo-random number sequence.
The feature test macro
.SM
\f4_SGI_REENTRANT_FUNCTIONS\fP
should be defined to make this function visible.
.SH NOTES
The spectral properties of
\f4rand\fP
are limited.
\f4drand48\fP(3C)
and
\f4random\fP(3C)
provide a much better, though more elaborate, random-number generator.
.sp
In a multi-threaded program \f4rand\fP is made MP safe by single-threading
access to the shared seed.
For best performance threaded applications should use \f4rand_r\fP instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4drand48\fP(3C), \f4random\fP(3C)
.\"	@(#)rand.3c	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
