'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.realpath @(#)realpath	41.3 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.\" @(#)realpath.3 1.8 88/03/07 SMI;
'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.realpath @(#)realpath	31.1 of 4/5/88
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} realpath 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} realpath 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} realpath 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} realpath "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4realpath\f1 \- returns the real file name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f4#include <stdlib.h>
#include <sys/param.h>\f1
.P
\f4char \(**realpath (const char \(**file_name, char \(**resolved_name);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4realpath\f1
resolves all links, symbolic links, and references to ``.'' and ``..'' in
\f2file_name\fP
and stores it in
\f2resolved_name\fP.
.PP
It can handle both relative and absolute path names.
For absolute path names and the relative names whose resolved
name cannot be expressed relatively
(for example, \f4../../reldir\fP),
it returns the
\f2resolved absolute\fP name.
.PP
\f2resolved_name\fP should point to a buffer
(\f4MAXPATHLEN\fP) bytes in length to contain the
fully resolved path name.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4getcwd\f1(3C).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS 
If there is no error, \f4realpath\fP returns a pointer to the
\f2resolved_name\fP.
Otherwise it returns a
null
pointer and places the name of the offending file in
\f2resolved_name\fP.
The global variable
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH NOTES
\f4realpath\fP operates on null-terminated strings.
.PP
One should have execute permission on all the directories
in the given and the resolved path.
.PP
\f4realpath\fP
may fail to return to the current directory if an error occurs.
