'\"macro stdmacro
.TH "REGISTERINETHOST" 3N
.SH NAME
registerinethost \- allocate internet address for workstation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <netinet/in.h>"
.PP
.B "int registerinethost(char \(**name, char \(**network, char \(**netmask,"
.br
.B "		struct in_addr \(**inaddr, char \(**aliases);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Registerinethost
sends an internet address allocation request to
.I registrar(1M)
on NIS master via the
.I yp_update(3R)
call.
This routine should be used only when NIS is enabled in the
network.
.P
The arguments for the routine are:
.sp
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B name
The host name to be registered.  This name must be unique in
the NIS domain.
.sp
.TP
.B network
The internet network number to be used in the allocation.
If the
.I netmask
is supplied, this argument should be an internet address so that
the
.I netmask
can be applied on.
.sp
.TP
.B netmask
The internet netmask.  If this argument is not used, i.e. it is NULL,
the parameter
.I network
should be a valid internet network number, e.g.
.I <192.26.61>.
If the argument is used, it must be in the internet standard "."
notation, e.g.
.I <255.255.255.128>
and the
.I network
parameter must also be a valid internet address, e.g.
.I <192.26.61.128>.
.sp
.TP
.B inaddr
The address of resulting internet address.
A NULL indicates the resulting address is not to be returned.
.sp
.TP
.B aliases
The aliases, each separated by spaces, of the host. The maximum number of
characters allowed in the string is MAX_ALIASES defined in
<sun/hostreg.h>.
A NULL indicates there will be no aliases for the host.
.RE
.PD
.sp
.B Registerinethost
returns NULL on successful registration.
The unsuccessful return code are defined in <rpcsvc/ypclnt.h>.
.P
.B Registerinethost
always wait until NIS databases are pushed
to all slave servers.

.SH SEE ALSO
registrar(1M), yp_update(1M), renamehost(3N), unregisterhost(3N),
yppush(1M)


'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.sgi
