'\"macro stdmacro
.TH "RENAMEHOST" 3N
.SH NAME
renamehost \- rename the existing hostname in NIS hosts database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int renamehost(char \(**oldname, char \(**newname, char \(**aliases,"
.br
.B "		char \(**passwd);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Renamehost
sends an host rename request to
.I registrar(1M)
on NIS master via the
.I yp_update(3R)
call.
The result is that the new host name will
be associated with the original internet address.
This routine should be used only when NIS is enabled in the
network.
This function call can not only change the hostname, but also
modify the aliases.
.P
The arguments for the routine are:
.sp
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B oldname
The original host name.
.sp
.TP
.B newname
The new host name for the internet address.
This new name should not be already used by other host.
However, it can be the alias of the original host.
User may want to use this call to swap the alias and host name.
User also can use this call just to modify the alias when
.I newname
is
the same as
.I oldname.
.sp
.TP
.B aliases
The new aliases, each separated by spaces, of the host. The maximum number of
characters allowed in the string is MAX_ALIASES defined in
<sun/hostreg.h>.
The new aliases can be the same as the original aliases, or
contains the old host name.
A NULL indicates the alias is omitted.
.sp
.TP
.B passwd
The root password of NIS master. If NIS master does not have
root password, simply pass a NULL.
.RE
.PD
.sp
On successful completion,
.B Renamehost
returns NULL.
The unsuccessful return code are defined in <rpcsvc/ypclnt.h>.
.P
.B Renamehost
always wait until NIS databases are pushed
to all slave servers.
.SH SEE ALSO
registrar(1M), yp_update(1M), registerinethost(3N), unregisterhost(3N),
yppush(1M)
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.sgi
