'\"macro stdmacro
.Op c p a
.TH sem_init 3C
.SH NAME
\f4sem_init\f1 \- initialize a posix unnamed semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f4#include <semaphore.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f4int sem_init(sem_t *\f2sem\fP, int \f2pshared\fP, unsigned int \f2value\fP);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\f4sem_init\f1 initializes the unnamed semaphore located at address \f2sem\fP.
The address \f2sem\fP may reside anywhere in the calling processes address
space, but if the semaphore is intended to be shared across process boundaries,
\f2sem\fP must reside in shared memory.
.P
The \f2pshared\fP argument is used to specify whether the semaphore is intended
to be shared across process boundaries or only used locally by threads of
execution within a common process.  If \f2pshared\fP is set to zero, then the
semaphore \f4is not\fP intended for sharing across process boundaries.
Conversely, a non-zero \f2pshared\fP value indicates any process having read
and write access to address \f2sem\fP, may perform semaphore operations
on \f2sem\fP.  Unnamed semaphores have been optimized for local thread usage,
delivering increased performance within posix thread applications
[see \f4pthread_create\fP(3P)]. 
.P
The initial value of the semaphore is specified by \f2value\fP, which may
be any non-negative number less than {SEM_VALUE_MAX}
[see \f4sysconf\fP(3C)].
.P
POSIX semaphores are compatible across all MIPS ABIs: o32, n32 and 64.
.P
Once a semaphore is initialized, processes may execute the following
semaphore operations: \f4sem_post\fP, \f4sem_wait\fP, \f4sem_trywait\fP,
\f4sem_getvalue\fP, \f4sem_destroy\fP.
.P
\f4sem_init\f1 will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 12
[EINVAL]
The \f2value\fP parameter was set to a number greater than {SEM_VALUE_MAX}.
.TP
[ENOSPC]
The resources required to initialize the semaphore have been depleted. 
.TP
[EPERM]
The calling process lacks the permissions required to initialize the semaphore.
.SH SEE ALSO
sem_destroy(3C),
sem_getvalue(3C),
sem_post(3C),
sem_wait(3C),
sem_trywait(3C),
sem_open(3C),
sem_close(3C),
sem_unlink(3C),
shm_open(3C),
sysconf(3C),
mmap(3C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned to the calling process. 
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \f4errno\fP is set to indicate
the error.
