'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g2.shm_unlink @(#)shm_unlink	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.TH sem_unlink 2
.SH NAME
\f4sem_unlink\f1 \- deletes a posix named semaphore
.PP
.SH C SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <semaphore.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int sem_unlink (const char *\f2name\fP);\f1
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4sem_unlink\f1 deletes the semaphore, named by the character string
at address \f2name\fP, from the file namespace.
The named semaphore and its state will persist after the
call to \f4sem_unlink\f1, if one or more processes still reference the
semaphore. Once the last reference has been dropped, the semaphore
ceases to exist [see \f4sem_close\fP(2)].
.P
\f4sem_unlink\fP will fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the
\f2name\f1 prefix.
.TP
[EACCES]
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the semaphore
to be removed and the process does not have the super-user privilege.
.TP
[EACCES]
The parent directory has the sticky bit set and the semaphore is not
writable by the user; the user does not own the parent directory and
the user does not own the semaphore.
.TP
[EACCES]
Write permission is denied on the semaphore named by \f2name\fP.
.TP
[EFAULT]
\f2name\f1
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
[EINTR]
A signal was caught during the \f4sem_unlink\f1 system call.
.TP
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \f2name\f1.
.TP
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of the \f2name\f1 argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2name\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1 is in effect.
.TP
[ENOENT]
The named semaphore does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the \f2name\f1 is not a directory.
.TP
[EPERM]
The named semaphore is a directory.
.TP
[EROFS]
The semaphore to be unlinked is part of a read-only file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4sem_open\f1(1),
\f4sem_close\f1(2)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.Ee