'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.setcat @(#)setcat	41.5 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} setcat 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} setcat 3C ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} setcat 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} setcat "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4setcat\fP \- define default catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 4
.nf
#include <pfmt.h>
.sp
char \(**setcat(const char \(**\f2catalog\f4);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The routine \f4setcat\f1 defines the default message catalog to be used
by subsequent calls to \f4gettxt\fP, \f4lfmt\f1, or \f4pfmt\f1
that do not explicitly specify a message catalog.
.P
\f2catalog\f1 must be limited to 14 characters.
These characters must be selected from a set of all characters values,
excluding \f4\\0\f1 (null) and the ASCII codes for \f4/\f1 (slash) and
\f4:\f1 (colon).
.P
\f4setcat\f1 assumes that the catalog exists.
No checking is done on the argument.
.P
A null pointer passed as an argument will result in the return of a
pointer to the current default message catalog name.
A pointer to an empty string passed as an argument will cancel the
default catalog.
.P
If no default catalog is specified, or if \f2catalog\f1 is an invalid
catalog name,
subsequent calls to \f4gettxt\f1, \f4lfmt\f1, or \f4pfmt\f1
that
do not explicitly specify a catalog name will use \f4Message not found!!\f2\en\f1
as the default string.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CW
.nf
	setcat("test");
	gettxt(":10", "hello world\\n")
.ft 1
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4gettxt\fP(3C),
\f4lfmt\fP(3C),
\f4pfmt\fP(3C),
\f4setlocale\fP(3C),
\f4environ\fP(5)
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon success, \f4setcat()\f1 returns a pointer to the catalog name.
Upon failure, \f4setcat()\f1 returns a null pointer.
