'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SETHOSTRESORDER 3N
.UC 5
.SH NAME
sethostresorder \- specify order of host-address resolution services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int sethostresorder\|(const char \(**order);"
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR gethostbyname (3N)
and
.IR gethostbyaddr (3N)
routines can access three types of host-address databases:
.IP \(bu 3
the hosts file, /etc/hosts,
.IP \(bu 3
Sun's network information service (NIS) and
.IP \(bu 3
the Berkeley Internet Name Domain service ("BIND name server").
.P
.I sethostresorder
allows a program to specify the order of services to resolve 
Internet addresses and hostnames from these databases.
.LP
.I sethostresorder
should be called before the first time
.I gethostbyname
and
.I gethostbyaddr
are called.
The
.I order
argument is a character string that contains keywords for the
lookup services.
See the description of
.I hostresorder
in
.IR resolver (4)
for the list and meaning of keywords and separators.
The colon (\|:\|) character is equivalent to white space as a keyword separator.
For example,
.Ex
sethostresorder("nis bind local");
sethostresorder("nis:bind:local");
.sp .25v
.Ee
are equivalent.
.P
There are two versions of this routine:
the standard  version in libc and the NIS version in libsun.
The programmatic interface of both versions is identical, except
the standard version ignores the NIS keyword. The libc default order
is ``bind / local'' and the libsun default is ``nis / bind / local''.
.P
This routine overrides the order specified by the
.I hostresorder
keyword in
.I /etc/resolv.conf
and the HOSTRESORDER environment variable.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I sethostresorder
returns 0 if the order was changed, otherwise it returns \-1.
Unrecognized keywords are ignored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
intro(3), gethostbyname(3N), resolver(4)
