'\"!  mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.sysconf @(#)sysconf	41.3 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} sysconf 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} sysconf 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} sysconf 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} sysconf "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4sysconf\f1 \- get configurable system variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft 4
#include <unistd.h>
.sp .5
long sysconf(int name);
.ft 1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4sysconf\f1 function provides a method for an application
to determine the current value of a configurable system limit or
option (variable).  By using this function, applications can be more
portable across different operating systems.
.P
The \f2name\f1 argument
represents the system variable to be queried.
Some of the limits have a minimal value defined by POSIX or XPG4 which may
have a higher value under IRIX.  Some limits are fixed in the system
and some may be altered by the system administrator (see
.BR systune (1M)
for information on how to change system limits).  In general, the
values returned by
.B sysconf
will be constant for the duration of a process.
In various manual pages, limits are specified within braces
(e.g. \f2{ARG_MAX}\fP.
The limit name, prepended with a \f4_SC_\fP is the name to be used
with \f4sysconf\fP.
For options such as \f2{POSIX2_VERSION}\fP, the name to be used as
the argument to \f2name\fP is the option name, minus \f4POSIX\fP and
\f4_SC_\fP prepended (\f4_SC_2_VERSION\fP).
The following lists the set of system variables from \f4<unistd.h>\f1
that can be returned by \f4sysconf\f1.
.sp .5
.TP 2i
NAME
MEANING
.sp .5
.TP 2i
\f4_SC_ARG_MAX\f1
Maximum length of arguments for the exec functions, in bytes, including environment data.
.TP
\f4_SC_ATEXIT_MAX\f1
Maximum number of functions that may be registered with \f4atexit\f1().
This value is always set at \f437\f1 in Irix.  This value is currently
not able to be changed in Irix.
.TP
\f4_SC_CHILD_MAX\f1
Maximum number of simultaneous processes per real user ID.
.TP
\f4_SC_IOV_MAX\f1
Maximum number of \f4iovec\f1 structures that one process has
available for use with \f4readv\f1() or \f4writev\f1().  This
value is currently \f4512\f1 or higher in Irix.
This value is currently not able to be changed in Irix.
.TP
\f4_SC_CLK_TCK\f1
Clock ticks per second.
.TP
\f4_SC_NACLS_MAX\f1
Always 0 on Irix.
.TP
\f4_SC_NGROUPS_MAX\f1
Maximum number of simultaneous supplementary group IDs per process.
.TP
\f4_SC_OPEN_MAX\f1
Maximum number of files that one process can have open at any given time.
.TP
\f4_SC_PASS_MAX\f1
Maximum number of characters in a password.
.TP
\f4_SC_PAGESIZE\f1
The memory page size of the system expressed in bytes.
This is the fundamental unit of memory management of the operating system.
.TP
\f4_SC_JOB_CONTROL\f1
Always 1 on Irix which supports job control.
.TP
\f4_SC_SAVED_IDS\f1
Always 1 on Irix which supports this feature of \f4setuid\fP(2).
.TP
\f4_SC_VERSION\f1
The version of POSIX currently supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_XOPEN_VERSION\f1
The version of X/Open currently supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_LOGNAME_MAX\f1
Maximum number of characters in a login name.
.TP
\f4_SC_NPROC_CONF\f1
Total number of processors configured in the machine.
.TP
\f4_SC_NPROC_ONLN\f1
Total number of processors currently online.
.TP
\f4_SC_STREAM_MAX\f1
The number streams that one process can have open at one time.
.TP
\f4_SC_TZNAME_MAX\f1
The maximum number of bytes supported for the name of a time zone.
.TP
\f4_SC_RTSIG_MAX\f1
The number of realtime signal values available.
.TP
\f4_SC_SIGQUEUE_MAX\f1
The maximum number of queued signals.
.TP
\f4_SC_REALTIME_SIGNALS\f1
Always 1 on Irix, meaning that realtime signals are supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_ACL\f1
Returns 1 if Access Control Lists are supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_AUDIT\f1
Returns 1 if Auditing is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_INF\f1
Returns 1 if Information Labels are supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_MAC\f1
Returns 1 if Mandatory Access Control is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_CAP\f1
Returns 1 if Capabilities are supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_IP_SECOPTS\f1
Returns 1 if IP Security Options are supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_PRIORITIZED_IO\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1b prioritized input and output option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_AIO_MAX\f1
The maximum number of simultaneous asynchronous I/O requests outstanding.
.TP
\f4_SC_AIO_LISTIO_MAX\f1
The maximum number of queued asynchronous I/O requests.
.TP
\f4_SC_ASYNCHRONOUS_IO\f1
Always 1 on Irix, meaning that asynchronous i/o is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_KERN_POINTERS\f1
Allows binaries to check if the running kernel is 32 bits
or 64 bits.  Possible return values for 32 bit kernels are
\f4\-1\fP or \f432\fP.  For 64 bit kernels the return value is \f464\fP.
.TP
\f4_SC_KERN_SIM\f1
Allows binaries to check if the running kernel is a 32, N32, or 64 bit
kernel.  Possible return values are (defined in sgidefs.h) \f4_MIPS_SIM_ABI32\fP, 
\f4_MIPS_SIM_NABI32\fP, \f4_MIPS_SIM_ABI64\fP, and \f4-1\fP for error.
.TP
\f4_SC_DELAYTIMER_MAX\f1
Maximum number of timer expiration overruns.
.TP
\f4_SC_MQ_OPEN_MAX\f1
The maximum number of open message queue descriptors that a process
may hold.
.TP
\f4_SC_MQ_PRIO_MAX\f1
The maximum number of message priorities supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_SEM_NSEMS_MAX\f1
The maximum number of semaphores that a process may have.
.TP
\f4_SC_SEM_VALUE_MAX\f1
The maximum value that a semaphore may have.
.TP
\f4_SC_TIMER_MAX\f1
Maximum number of timers supported per process.
.TP
\f4_SC_FSYNC\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b file synchronization is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_MAPPED_FILES\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b mapped files option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_MEMLOCK\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b process memory locking option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_MEMLOCK_RANGE\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b range memory locking option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_MEMORY_PROTECTION\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b memory protection option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_MESSAGE_PASSING\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b message passing option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b process scheduling option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_SEMAPHORES\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b semaphore option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_SHARED_MEMORY_OBJECTS\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b shared memory object option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_SYNCHRONIZED_IO\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b synchronized input and output option is
supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_TIMERS\f1
Returns 1 if POSIX 1003.1b timers option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_XOPEN_SHM\f1
If the X/Open Shared Memory Feature Group is supported, then a value of 1
is returned.  If it is not supported then a value of -1 is returned.
.TP
\f4_SC_BC_BASE_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum \f2obase\fP value allowed by the \f4bc\fP utility.
.TP
\f4_SC_BC_DIM_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum number of elements permitted in an array by the
\f4bc\fP utility.
.TP
\f4_SC_BC_SCALE_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum \f2scale\fP value allowed by the \f4bc\fP utility.
.TP
\f4_SC_BC_STRING_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum length of a string constant accepted by the
\f4bc\fP utility.
.TP
\f4_SC_COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum number of weights that can be assigned to an entry of
the \f4LC_COLLATE\fP \f2order\fP keyword in the locale definition file.
.TP
\f4_SC_EXPR_NEST_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum number of expressions that can be nested within parenthesis
by the \f2expr\fP utility.
.TP
\f4_SC_RE_DUP_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum number of repeated occurrences of a \f4BRE\fP permitted
when using the interval notation \f2\\{m,n\\}\fP.
.TP
\f4_SC_LINE_MAX\f1
Returns the maximum length, in bytes, of the input line of a utility
(either standard input or another file), when the utility is described
as processing text files.
The length includes room for the trailing \f2<newline>\fP.
Some utilities has different limits specified in their manual pages.
.TP
\f4_SC_XOPEN_CRYPT\f1
The encryption routines \f4crypt()\f1, \f4encrypt()\f1 and
\f4setkey()\f1 are always provided, and hence the setting
for this X/Open Feature Group is to return the value 1.
Note that in certain markets
the decryption algorithm may not be exported
and in that case, \f4encrypt()\f1 returns \f4ENOSYS\f1 for
the decryption operation.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_C_BIND\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.2 C-language development facilities option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_LOCALEDEF\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.2 creation of locales option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_C_DEV\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.2 C-language development utilities option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_C_VERSION\f1
Returns the value of \f4POSIX2_C_VERSION\fP which indicates the version of
the POSIX 1003.2 standard C-language binding option that IRIX conforms to.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_CHAR_TERM\f1
Returns 1 if the system supports at least one terminal type
capable of all operations described in POSIX 1003.2.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_FORT_DEV\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.2 FORTRAN development utilities option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_FORT_RUN\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.2 FORTRAN runtime utilities option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_SW_DEV\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.2 software development utilities option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_UPE\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.2 user portability utilities option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_XOPEN_ENH_I18N\f1
Returns 1 if the X/Open enhanced internationalization feature group is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_2_VERSION\f1
Returns the value of \f4POSIX2_VERSION\fP which indicates the version of
the POSIX 1003.2 standard that the utilities in IRIX conform to.
.TP
\f4_SC_GETGR_R_SIZE_MAX\f1
Maximum size of \f4getgrgid_r\fP(3C) and \f4getgrnam_r\fP(3C) data buffers.
.TP
\f4_SC_GETPW_R_SIZE_MAX\f1
Maximum size of \f4getpwuid_r\fP(3C) and \f4getpwnam_r\fP(3C) data buffers.
.TP
\f4_SC_LOGIN_NAME_MAX\f1
The size of storage required for a login name, in bytes, including the
terminating null.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_DESTRUCTORS_ITERATIONS\f1
The number of attempts made to destroy a thread's thread-specific data values
on thread exit.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_KEYS_MAX\f1
The number of data keys per process.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_STACK_MIN\f1
The minimum size in bytes required for a thread stack.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_THREADS_MAX\f1
The number of threads per process.
.TP
\f4_SC_TTY_NAME_MAX\f1
The size of storage required for a terminal device name, in bytes, including the
terminating null.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREADS\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c threads option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_ATTR_STACKADDR\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c thread stack address attribute option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_ATTR_STACKSIZE\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c thread stack size attribute option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c thread execution scheduling option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_PRIO_INHERIT\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c priority inheritance option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_PRIO_PROTECT\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c priority protection option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_PROCESS_SHARED\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c process-shared synchronization option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_THREAD_SAFE_FUNCTIONS\f1
Returns 1 if the POSIX 1003.1c thread-safe functions option is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_MMAP_FIXED_ALIGNMENT\f1
The minimum alignment required for MAP_FIXED \f4mmap\fP(2) calls.
This is the same as \f4_SC_PAGESIZE\fP except on the MIPS R4000PC,
R4600 and R5000 processors.
.TP
\f4_SC_SOFTPOWER\f1
Returns 1 if softpower is supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_XBS5_ILP32_OFF32\f1
Always 1 on IRIX, since the compilation model -o32 is always supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG\f1
Always 1 on IRIX, since the compilation model -n32 is always supported.
.TP
\f4_SC_XBS5_LP64_OFF64\f1
Returns 1 if the -64 compilation model is supported on this
platform, -1 otherwise.
.TP
\f4_SC_XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG\f1
Returns 1 if the -64 compilation model is supported on this
platform, -1 otherwise.
.TP
\f4_SC_XOPEN_LEGACY\f1
If the X/Open Legacy Feature Group is supported, then a value of 1
is returned.  If it is not supported then a value of -1 is returned.
Always 1 on IRIX and the Legacy features supported designated by the
word \f4LEGACY\f1 in the individual man pages.
.sp .5
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4fpathconf\fP(2), \f4sysconf\fP(1), \f4systune\fP(1M).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If \f2name\f1 is an invalid value, \f4\%sysconf\f1
will return \f4\-1\f1 and set \f4errno\f1 to indicate the error.
If \f4\%sysconf\f1 fails due to a value of
\f2name\f1 that is not defined on the system, the function will return
a value of \f4\-1\f1 without changing the value of \f4errno\f1.
.SH NOTES
A call to \f4setrlimit\f1 may cause the
value of \f4OPEN_MAX\f1 to change. 
.ad
