'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3c.ttyname @(#)ttyname	40.12 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} ttyname 3C "C Development Set" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} ttyname 3C "C Development Set"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} ttyname 3C "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} ttyname "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4ttyname\f1, \f4ttyname_r\f1, \f4isatty\f1 \- find name of a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.br
\f4#include <unistd.h>\fP
.PP
\f4char \(**ttyname (int fildes);\f1
.PP
\f4int ttyname_r (int fildes, char \(**buf, size_t buflen);\f1
.PP
\f4int isatty (int fildes);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4ttyname\fP
returns a pointer to a string containing the null-terminated path name
of the terminal device associated with file descriptor
.IR fildes .
\f4ttyname_r\f1 is a reentrant version of \f4ttyname\f1 where \f2buf\f1
and \f2buflen\f1 give the location and maximum size of where the
resultant string should be placed.
The maximum length of the terminal name is \f2{TTY_NAME_MAX}\fP.
\f4sysconf\fP(3C) may be used to determine this value.
.PP
\f4isatty\fP
returns 1 if
.I fildes\^
is associated with a terminal device, 0 otherwise.
.SH FILES
\f4/dev/\(**\f1
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4ttyname\fP
returns a
\f4NULL\fP
pointer if
.I fildes\^
does not describe a terminal device in directory
\f4/dev\f1.
.PP
\f4ttyname_r\f1
returns 0 on success or an error number on failure.
If \f2fildes\fP doesn't refer to a valid file descriptor, \f4EBADF\fP
is returned.
If \f2fildes\fP doesn't refer to a valid terminal device, \f4ENOTTY\fP
is returned.
If the value of \f2buflen\fP is smaller than the length of the string
to be returned including the terminating
null character, \f4ERANGE\fP is returned.
.SH NOTES
The return value of \f4ttyname\f1 points to static data
whose content is overwritten by each call.
.\"	@(#)ttyname.3c	6.2 of 10/20/83
.Ee
