.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} chroot 1M "System Administration Utilities" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
chroot \- change root directory for a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3chroot\f1 newroot command
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I chroot
causes the given
.I command
to be executed
relative to the new root,
.IR newroot .
The meaning of any initial slashes
.RB ( / )
in the pathnames is changed for the command and any of its child processes to
.IR newroot .
Furthermore, upon execution, the initial working directory is
.IR newroot .
.PP
If you redirect the output of the command
to a file:
.Ex
\f4chroot \f2newroot command\f4 > \f2x\f1
.Ee
.I chroot
creates the file
.I x
relative to the original root of the command, not the new one.
.PP
The new root pathname is always relative to the current root; even if a
.I chroot
is currently in effect, the
.I newroot
argument is relative to the current root of the
running process.
.PP
This command can be run only by the superuser.
.SH CAVEAT
In order to execute programs that use shared libraries, the
following directories and their contents must be present in
the new root directory.
.IP "\f2/lib\f1 and \f2/lib32\fP" 13
These directories must contain the run-time loader (\f2/lib/rld\f1 and/or
\f2/lib32/rld\fP) and
any shared object files needed by your applications (usually including
\f2libc.so.1\f1).  That means it must normally be in \f2/lib\fP
and a symlink in \f2/usr/lib\fP to \f2../../lib/libc.so.1\P (and often
the same for \f2/usr/lib32\fP to \f2../../lib32/libc.so.1\fP).
.IP \f2./dev\f1
The run-time loader needs the zero device in order to work correctly.
\f2/dev/zero\f1 is also needed; make it readonly (mode 444).
.PP
A chroot can also be accomplished when users login by prefixing the
shell field of their password entry with a
.BR * ,
See the
.BR passwd (4)
man page for more info.
.SH SEE ALSO
cd(1),
chroot(2),
ftpd(1m) (for more comments on issues in setting up chroot'ed environments),
passwd(4)
.SH NOTES
Exercise extreme caution when referencing device files
in the new root filesystem.
.PP
When using
.IR chroot ,
with commands that are dynmically linked, all of the libraries required must
be in the chroot'ed environment.  The system will usually log a message in
\f2/var/adm/SYSLOG\fP if some libraries or \f2rld\fP are not found.
