.TH "fccli" "1m" ""
.SH NAME
.B fccli
\- FibreVault Status/Configuration Command Line Interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
The command line syntax of \f3fccli\fP takes multiple flavors
depending on the use.
.PP
\f3fccli getversion\fP [\f3-h\fP \f2hostname\fP] 
.br
\f3fccli getstatus\fP [\f3-h\fP \f2hostname\fP] [\f3-c\fP \f2channel-ID\fP [\f3-e\fP \f2enclosure-ID\fP]]
.br
\f3fccli\fP \f2command\fP [\f3-h\fP \f2hostname\fP] \f3-c\fP \f2channel-ID\fP \f3-t\fP \f2tid_1\fP [\f2tid_2\fP .. [\f2tid_n\fP]]
.br 
.TP 15
where \f2command\fP is one of the following: 
\f3insert\fP, \f3remove\fP, \f3ledon\fP, \f3ledoff\fP, \f3flash\fP, \f3bypass\fP, \f3unbypass\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The fccli command is a user front end to \f3fcagent\fP which collects
status of all FibreVault enclosures and allows for configuration
changes.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP 15
\f3getversion\fP
this command will report the version level of \f3fcagent\fP.
.TP 15
\f3getstatus\fP
this command reports status of FibreVault enclosures. The interface is
in the form of a hierarchy where the user can get brief summary
channel status at one extreme and detailed enclosure status at the
other extreme. 
.TP 15
\f3remove\fP
this command will prepare a drive for physical removal, i.e. will
spin-down the specified disk drive, and bypass it to logically remove
it from the FC loop.
.TP 15
\f3insert\fP
this command will prepare a drive for operation, after being
physically introduced into the enclosure, i.e. will unbypass it to
logically introduce it onto the FC loop and spin it up.
.TP 15
\f3ledon\fP
this command will turn "ON" the amber "LED" associated with the specified
disk device.
.TP 15
\f3ledoff\fP
this command will turn "OFF" the amber "LED" associated with the specified
disk device.
.TP 15
\f3flash\fP
this command will "FLASH" the amber "LED" associated with the
specified disk device. This "flashing" mode will persist until either
an \f3ledon\fP or \f3ledoff\fP command is issued.
.TP 15
\f3bypass\fP
this command will logically remove the specified disk device from the FC loop.
.TP 15
\f3unbypass\fP
this command will logical introduce the specified disk device onto the FC loop.

.SH OTHER COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
.TP 15
\f3-h\f \f2hostname\fP
use this option to communicate with an instance of
\f3fcagent\fP running on a remote machine.
.TP 15
\f3-c\fP \f2channel-ID\fP
use this option to direct a command at a particular FC channel.
.TP 15
\f3-e\fP \f2enclosure-ID\fP
use this option (\f3getstatus\fP command only) in
conjunction with the \f3-c\fP option to obtain more detailed status
about a particular enclosure.
.TP 15
\f3-t\fP \f2tid_1\fP [\f2tid_2\fP .. [\f2tid_n\fP]]
use this option(s) (\f3insert\fP, \f3remove\fP, \f3ledon\fP,
\f3ledoff\fP, \f3flash\fP, \f3bypass\fP, \f3unbypass\fP commands only)
in conjunction with the \f3-c\fP option to direct an action at a
particular drive or set of drives.

.SH EXAMPLES
Obtaining the revision level of the instance of \f3fcagent\fP running
on remote machine betelguese:
.PP
.nf
	\f3fccli getversion -h betelguese\fP

	sample output:
    
	FC JBOD Agent version 1.0, Mon May 19 17:16:48 PDT 1997

.fi

.PP
Obtaining a brief channel status summary:
.PP
.nf
	\f3fccli getstatus\fP

	sample output:

	CHANNEL | DRIVES    POWER     FANS      PEER LCC  
	--------+-----------------------------------------
	   24   |   OK       FAIL      OK         OK 
	   25   |  

.fi
The example shows that channel 24 has one or more enclosures reporting
a power supply fault. Channel 25 shows no status which indicates one
of three possibilities.
.PP
.PD 0.25
.TP 3
o\& 
There are no FC device(s) connect to the channel.
.TP 3
o\& 
There are no FibreVaults(s) connect to the channel (e.g. fibre RAID may be connected).
.TP 3
o\& 
There is a communication problem with the FibreVault.
.PD
	
.PP
Obtaining a more detailed enclosure summary of channel 24:
.PP
.nf
	\f3fccli getstatus -c 24\fP

	sample output:

	ENCLOSURE | DRIVES    POWER     FANS      PEER LCC  
	----------+-----------------------------------------
	      4   |   OK       FAIL      OK         OK 
	      5   |   OK       FAIL      OK         OK 

.fi
The example shows two connected FibreVault enclosures connected to
channel 24, IDs 4 and 5, with a power supply fault in each. It should
be noted that \f3fccli\fP cannot differentiate between a failed
power supply and one that is present but powered down.

.PP
Obtaining a detailed status of enclosure 4 on channel 24:
.PP
.nf
	\f3fccli getstatus -c 24 -e 4\fP

	sample output:

	 Enclosure 4, status FAIL
	 Vendor ID:     CLARiiON
	 Product ID:    DISK ENC
	 LCC SN#:                   
	 LCC Mfg. Date:     
	 LCC code rev:  003
	 FRUs:          10 disk slot(s)
	                1 fan slot(s)
	                2 power supply slot(s)
	                1 peer LCC slot(s)

	 +---------------------------------------+------+
	 | [ 4] FAIL                             |      |
	 +---------------------------------------+      |
	 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | P    |
	 | O | O | O | O | O | O | O | O | B | B | E  L |
	 | K | K | K | K | K | K | K | K | P | P | E  L |
	 | 40| 41| 42| 43| 44| 45| 46| 47| 48| 49| R  C |
	 +---------------------------------------+      |
	 |               FANS  OK                |  OK  |
	 |      PS0 FAIL           PS1  OK       |      |
	 +---------------------------------------+------+

.fi
The example shows a power supply fault on power supply FRU
0. Additionally, disk FRUs 48 and 49, although physically present,
have been bypassed.

.PP 
Illuminating the amber LEDs associated with disk FRUs 45-49 on channel 24:
.PP
.nf
	\f3fccli ledon -c 24 -t 45 46 47 48 49\fP

.fi

.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 20
/usr/sbin/fccli
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
fcagent(1M)
