'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1a.fsdump @(#)fsdump     30.4 of 3/14/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} FSDUMP 1M "Directory and File Management Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} FSDUMP 1M "Directory and File Management Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} FSDUMP 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} FSDUMP "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.de us
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'
..
.SH NAME
fsdump \- file system dumper for rfindd for EFS and XFS 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "cd /var/rfindd; ./fsdump"
.RB [ \-L " logfile]"
.RB [ \-M " minutes]"
.RB [ \-Q ]
.RB [ \-R ]
.RB [ \-U " maxrss]"
.B \-F
dumpfile
directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fsdump
is applicable to EFS and XFS filesystems.
.PP
.IR fsdump\^
creates the
.B dumpfile
used by
.IR rfindd (1M)
to respond to
.IR rfind (1)
requests.
The
.B dumpfile
contains:
.IP "inode contents" 20
For each allocated inode in
the file system mounted at
.BR directory ,
.IR fsdump\^
stores all the fields from the inode header,
excluding the extent and reference count fields.
.IP "directory contents" 20
For each directory in the file system
that is readable by the user "rfindd",
.IR fsdump\^
stores the inode numbers and filenames
in that directory.
.IP "Quick checksums" 20
If the
.B \-Q
option is specified,
then
.IR fsdump\^
stores a quick checksum
of the data contents of each
regular file in the file system.
This checksum only covers the first
few bytes of each basic block
(512 byte sector).
.IP "RCS information" 20
If the
.B \-R
option is specified,
then
.IR fsdump\^
stores the top-of-trunk
version number and date
for each file in the file system
that has a name of the form
"RCS/*,v"
and contains a parsable
RCS header.
See
.IR rcsfile (4)
for a description of such files.
.PP
The following options are accepted by
.IR fsdump .
.TP 12
.BI \-F " dumpfile"
Tells fsdump where to write the
data extracted during the run.
.TP 12
.BI \-L " logfile"
If specified,
.IR fsdump\^
appends a few lines to the named
.BR logfile ,
containing the date of the run
and some statistics about the amount
of space and time consumed.
.TP 12
.BI \-M " minutes"
If specified, limits the number of minutes
since
.IR fsdump\^
started
that
.IR fsdump\^
will spend extracting RCS information
or checksums.
If either of the
.B \-Q
or
.B \-R
options is being used, and if
.IR fsdump\^
is being run frequently,
such as every hour,
then use the
.B \-M
option to tell
.IR fsdump\^
how long it should run,
before it writes out its
partial results,
and allows the next
scheduled run to occur.
.TP 12
.BI \-Q
Requests
.IR fsdump\^
to repeatedly compute a
quick checksum on the contents
of each file.
.IR fsdump\^
prints a warning message into the
.B logfile
of the form:
.br
	>>>>>> File contents corrupted !! :: <file>
.br
if the checksum changes for a file that
was not modified via the file system.
.TP 12
.BI \-R
Requests
.IR fsdump\^
to maintain the RCS top-of-trunk
revision and date for each
apparent
"RCS/*,v"
file.
.TP 12
.BI \-U " maxrss"
If specified, limits to
.B maxrss
kilobytes
the amount of physical memory that
this fsdump process can use.
.PP
.B directory
must be the directory
on which is mounted the
EFS or the XFS file system to be dumped.
.SS Configuration
To configure the
.I rfind
services
.RI ( rfindd " and " fsdump )
on your system,
perform the following:
.IP "1)" 5
If you want
.I fsdump
to update all
.BR dumpfile \'s
on some schedule other than
starting at 3 minutes past
each hour, then while
.BR su \'d
to rfindd\'s uid,
use the
.BR crontab (1)
command to change the frequency
of execution of
.IR runfsdump .
The following steps can be used to edit rfindd\'s
crontab file.
.RS 8
.IP "a]" 5
su root
.IP "b]" 5
su \- rfindd
.IP "c]" 5
crontab \-l > crontab
.IP "d]" 5
edit this crontab file
.IP "e]" 5
crontab crontab
.RE
.IP "2)" 5
To change the list of file systems
to be dumped,
edit the file
.BR /var/rfindd/fslist .
By default, the basename of the mount point of the
file system is used as the dump file name.
If the file system is "/", then the dump
file name is taken as "root" instead.
To specify
a different dump file name, provide that name as the
second field on its line in
.BR fslist .
The logfile name is always the dump file name with
the suffix ".log" added.
.IP "3)" 5
To change the options with which
.IR fsdump
is invoked, edit the file
.BR /var/rfindd/fsoptions .
.IP "4)" 5
Edit the file /etc/rfind.aliases
on each client system that should
have access to the new rfind server.
If only the localhost needs access,
then this step is not needed.
.PP
.ne 10
.SS Strategy
.IR fsdump\^
typically performs the following steps each run:
.IP "1)" 5
parse arguments
.IP "2)" 5
map
.B directory
to file system device
.IP "3)" 5
open read-only file system device (requires setuid "root" privileges)
.IP "4)" 5
open existing
.B dumpfile
(if any)
.IP "5)" 5
relinquish "root" privileges
.IP "6)" 5
redirect stdout/stderr to
.B logfile
(if specified)
.IP "7)" 5
determine file system parameters from super block for EFS filesystems and XFS
syssgi calls for XFS filesystems.
.IP "8)" 5
Lock the entire
.BR dumpfile ,
to prevent simultaneous update attempts.
.IP "9)" 5
.IR mmap (2)
existing
.B dumpfile
into address space
.IP "10)" 5
read inodes from raw disk, one cylinder group at a time for EFS filesystems
and in numeric order for XFS filesystems.
.IP "11)" 5
test mtime, ctime, size and gen of each inode for changes
.IP "12)" 5
maintain current uid, gid, atime, nlink and mode for all inodes
.IP "13)" 5
discard directory, RCS and quick checksums information for any changed inodes
.IP "14)" 5
close the file descriptor to the raw file system device
.IP "15)" 5
read any changed/new directories using opendir/readdir
.IP "16)" 5
rebuild secondary index on filenames
.IP "17)" 5
if -R specified and time permits, update RCS information for changed
"RCS/*,v"
files
.IP "18)" 5
if -Q specified and time permits, update quick checksums for all regular files
.IP "19)" 5
write new
.B dumpfile
to temporary name
.IP "20)" 5
touch the start time of the new
.B dumpfile
to the beginning time of this run
.IP "21)" 5
update the fsdump.{pag,dir} files
.IP "22)" 5
.IR rename (2)
temporary name to specified
.B dumpfile
name
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 28
/etc/config/rfindd
.IR chkconfig (1M)
file controlling
.IR fsdump\^
and
.IR rfindd (1M).
.TP 28
/var/rfindd/fsdump.dir,
.TP 28
/var/rfindd/fsdump.pag
contain database (in
.IR ndbm (3B)
format)
of each
.BR directory
and
.BR dumpfile
in
.BR /var/rfindd .
.IR fsdump\^
updates this database each run,
and
.IR rfindd
uses the database to map the requested
.B directory
to the
.B dumpfile
containing information about it.
.TP 28
.RB /var/rfindd/ dumpfile
The file system information extracted by
.IR fsdump\^
is stored here for use by
.IR rfindd (1M).
The first 12 lines of this file
contain an ASCII header describing
the remaining, binary, sections
of the file.
The
.B dumpfile
typically requires between
1% and 2% of the inuse
space of the
file system being dumped.
.TP 28
.RB /var/rfindd/ dumpfile .log
Conventional name for the
.BR logfile ,
as specified in the
.B crontab
invocation of
.IR fsdump .
.TP 28
/etc/init.d/rfindd
The runtime startup script,
invoked by
.IR init (1M),
that starts the
.IR rfindd (1M)
daemon process.
.TP 28
/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/rfindd
The
.B crontab
file that invokes
.IR fsdump .
.TP 28
/var/rfindd/rotatelogs
Utility invoked from
the
.B crontab
for "rfindd".
Each
.B logfile
named on the command line
of
.IR rotatelogs
is moved to the file
.BR OLDlogfile .
.TP 28
/var/rfindd/fslist
The list of file systems to be examined
by
.IR fsdump (1M).
The
.IR runfsdump
script uses this list.
.TP 28
/var/rfindd/fsoptions
The list of options to be passed when
invoking the
.IR fsdump (1M)
command.
The
.IR runfsdump
script uses this list.
.TP 28
/var/rfindd/runfsdump
The script, executed from
.IR cron
once each hour, or as otherwise
specified, which invokes
.IR fsdump
on each file system listed
in
.IR fslist ,
using the options specified in
.IR fsoptions .
.TP 28
/var/rfindd/passwd.add
Utility used by
.IR inst
exitop
to add the user "rfindd" to the file
.BR /etc/passwd .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chkconfig(1M),
crontab(1),
rfind(1),
rfindd(1M).
.br
mmap(2),
rename(2),
ndbm(3B),
fs(4),
rcsfile(4).
