.TH nsadmin 1M "November 5, 1997"
.SH NAME
nsadmin \- \&Name Service Administration Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBnsadmin\fP \fB[command]\fP \fB[arguments]\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnsadmin\fP utility is used for administration of the Unified Name
Service interface (see \fBnsd\fP(1m)).  The nsd daemon maintains a filesystem
typically mounted on \fB/ns\fP using various directory service protocols to
provide information.  It also maintains local cache files for each lookup.
The nsadmin command allows manipulation of the name space and cache files
maintained by the nsd daemon.  Run with no arguments it acts
as a command line interpreter and can be given multiple commands.  Each
command is followed by arguments and terminated by a newline.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
caches
Lists all cache file names.
.TP
cat map ...
This cats the enumeration file for each named map.  The list of maps
can be found using the \fBmaps\fP command.
.TP
clean cache ...
This remove entries that have timed out from a cache file.
.TP
clear cache key ...
This removes each of the named keys from the specified cache file.
The list of cache files can be found using the \fBcaches\fP command.
.TP
domain domainname
This sets the current domain for flush and clear commands.
.TP
dump cache [key] ...
This prints out some or all cached entries for the named map.  If no keys
are named then it prints out all entries for that map.  The list of caches
can be found by using the \fBcaches\fP command.
.TP
flush [cache] ...
This removes all keys in each of the named cache files.  If no cache files
are named then it removes all keys from all cache files.  The list of cache
files can be found by using the \fBcaches\fP command.
.TP
grep map expression ...
Does a regular expression search over the named map.  Multiple \fBperl\fP(1)
style regular expressions can be given and the lines which match any of the
expressions will be printed.  A list of maps can be found by using the
\fBmaps\fP command.
.TP
help [command] ...
Displays a help line for each of the named commands.  If no commands are
given then help will be given for all of the commands.
.TP
maps
This just lists the names of all the defined maps for this system.
.TP
match map key ...
This looks up one or more key in the named map.  The list of maps can be
found using the \fBmaps\fP command.
.TP
remove [cache] ...
Invalidates and removes the named cache file.  If no cache file is
listed, all cache files will be removed.  Cache files cannot safely be
removed using rm since multiple running processes may be holding them open.
Using this command the file can be safely removed and any running processes
will reopen the file on next use.
.TP
restart [options] ...
Kills nsd and removes all cache files, and restarts nsd will the default
options and any extras passed on the command line.  
.TP
watch
Monitors the nsd process and restarts on failure.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The \fBnsadmin\fP command returns with a 0 status from interactive mode, or
if the command line execution succeeded.  On failure, it will return a
error status as defined in /usr/include/sys/errno.h.   Some of these error
codes are listed below.  Other error codes may be returned directly from a
system call.
.TP 10
EINVAL
The arguments passed to the command are invalid.
.TP
ELIBACC
The perl library MDBM_File could not be dynamically loaded.  This library
is available in the eoe.sw.gifts_perl_lib inst package.
.TP
ENOENT
The file requested to be operated on does not exist.
.TP
EPERM
The current process does not have permission to perform the requested
command.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
/var/ns/cache/*
/ns/.local/*
/etc/nsswitch.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
nsd(1m)
