.TH QuickPage 1 "19 March 1998" "Thomas Dwyer III"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1998 Thomas Dwyer III
.SH NAME
QuickPage \- SNPP client/server for sending messages to an alpha-numeric pager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qpage
[
.B \-dhimQv
] [
.BI \-a " [+][dd+]hhmm
|
.BI \-a " YYMMDDHHMMSS
] [
.BI \-c " coverage
] [
.BI \-f " from
] [
.BI \-l " level
] [
.BI \-p " pagerid
] [
.BI \-P " pagerid
] [
.BI \-s " server
] [
.I message
]
.LP
.B qpage
[
.B \-d
] [
.BI \-C " config
]
.BI \-q " interval
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QuickPage
sends messages to a paging terminal using the SNPP and IXO (also known
as TAP) protocols.  It is normally used with no options other than
a recipient and the message text, in which case the message is
sent to the SNPP server where it is submitted to a page queue
to be sent by a separate daemon process.
Page groups and duty schedules are supported.
Status notification messages
indicating the success or failure of a page
are sent via e-mail to submitters of
high-priority (level 0) pages.
.LP
If no message is specified on the command line,
the user is prompted for the message text.  Characters are read from
standard input until a line containing only a period is
received, or until EOF is received.  All occurrences of whitespace
within the message text are reduced to a single space character.
.LP
Messages received by the
.B QuickPage
daemon that are longer than
the maximum page length (see below) are split into multiple segments
and sent as separate pages.
Each message segment is prefixed with its segment number.
The maximum number of segments a into which a message will be split
is configurable.
If a message exceeds this limit, the last allowed segment will be
prefixed with 't', indicating that the message is truncated;
otherwise, the last segment is prefixed with 'e' to indicate the
end of the message.
Messages that fit into a single page are not prefixed with segment numbers.
All message segments are prefixed with CALLerid information (see RFC-1861),
if available.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported: 
.TP
.BI \-a
Send the page at the specified time.  A time specification prefixed
with a plus sign (+) is added to the current time.  The
.B QuickPage
daemon will not send any pages with a timestamp newer than the current
time.
This feature may be used to provide a simple alarm clock function
for meeting reminders, etc.
This option applies only to the pagerid(s) specified by the next
.B \-p
option.
If the specified time is in the format YYMMDDHHMMSS, the two-digit
year is interpreted as follows: if the last two digits of the specified
year are in the range 00-49 and the last two digits of the current
year are in the range 50-99, assume the specified time is in the next
century.  Otherwise assume the specified time is in the current
century.
.TP
.BI \-c
Use a different coverage area or paging service.  This option is
only useful if the recipient has more than one pager and/or more
than one paging service. 
This option applies only to the pagerid(s) specified by the next
.B \-p
option.
.TP
.BI \-C
Specify an alternate configuration file.  This option may only
be used on the
.B QuickPage
server.
.TP
.BI \-d
Debug mode.  Very verbose and probably not interesting for the
normal user.  This option is provided for debugging purposes only.
.TP
.BI \-f
Specify who the page is from.  This option specifies the argument to
the SNPP
.B CALLerid
command.  Every message segment will be
prefixed with the value specified by this option unless disabled
by the msgprefix keyword in the configuration file.  A null
argument (
.B \-f
"") may be specified to suppress the message prefix for a particular
message.  However, this will also suppress e-mail status notification.
The default is the userid of the person running
.B QuickPage.
.TP
.BI \-h
Help.  Print a brief summary of the command line options.
.TP
.BI \-i
Use interactive mode.  The page is sent immediately and summary
messages are printed during the course of the transaction.
This option may only be used on a machine with a physically
attached modem.  This option is intended for debugging purposes
only and should not be used in a production environment.  The
.B \-d
option, when used in conjunction with this option, can be
very effective in troubleshooting problems between the SNPP
server and the remote paging terminal.
.TP
.BI \-l
Specify the service level for this page.  The service level must be
a number between 0 and 11, inclusive.
The TME protocol specifies service level as follows:
.LP
.RS
.RS
.PD 0
0 - Priority
.TP
1 - Normal (default)
.TP
2 - Five minutes
.TP
3 - Fifteen minutes
.TP
4 - One hour
.TP
5 - Four hours
.TP
6 - Twelve hours
.TP
7 - Twenty Four hours
.TP
8 - Carrier specific '1'
.TP
9 - Carrier specific '2'
.TP
10 - Carrier specific '3'
.TP
11 - Carrier specific '4'
.PD
.RE
.LP
With the exception of level zero, service levels have no
meaning to
.B QuickPage
but they are accepted for compatibility with other programs.
Pages submitted with service level zero cause e-mail to be
sent to the submitter whenever a page succeeds or fails.
Any service level specified by the user is passed on to
the SNPP server.
This option applies only to the pagerid(s) specified by the next
.B \-p
option.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-m
This option tells
.B QuickPage
to read an e-mail message from standard input.  A page is
constructed by concatenating the From: header (XXX), the
Subject: header (YYY), and lines from the message
body (ZZZ) as follows:
.LP
.RS
.RS
XXX (Subj: YYY) ZZZ ...
.RE
.LP
Minimal support is provided for multipart MIME messages.  The first
part with a Content-Type: of text/plain will be processed.  The
remaining parts will be discarded.  This will reduce the problems
associated with people accidentally mailing binaries to their pagers.
.LP
The X-sun-attachment type is not supported and should not be used.
MIME is a documented standard.
The X-sun-attachment type is neither documented nor standard.
However,
.B QuickPage
will still use the From: and Subject: lines (but no message body)
from such messages for those people who insist on using it anyway.
.LP
A line starting with two dashes (--) in the message body (or in
a MIME text part) is assumed to be the start of a signature and
will cause
.B QuickPage
to stop processing the e-mail message at that point.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-p
Specify the pagerid of the intended recipient.
Multiple recipients may be specified by separating
their pager IDs with commas (e.g. pagerid1,pagerid2,pagerid3).
No spaces are permitted between recipients and the comma
separator characters.
Any
.B \-a,
.B \-c,
or
.B \-l
options previously encountered on the command line are reset
to their default values after this option is processed.
This option may occur multiple times on the command line, each
possibly preceded by different
.B \-a,
.B \-c,
or
.B \-l
options.
.TP
.BI \-P
Like
.B \-p
but does not reset
.B \-a,
.B \-c,
or
.B \-l
options previously encountered on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-q
Start a
.B QuickPage
daemon.  This option causes
.B QuickPage
to detach itself from the controlling terminal and run as a daemon
process.  This option requires a numerical argument.  If the argument
is greater than zero, it specifies the number of seconds
.B QuickPage
should sleep between queue runs.  An argument less than zero signals
.B QuickPage
to accept incoming SNPP connections and write new pages to the page
queue, but to never process the page queue.  An argument of zero
signals
.B QuickPage
not to listen for incoming SNPP connections, but to process the
page queue one time and then exit.
See the NOTES section below for more information.
.TP
.BI \-Q
Print the current contents of the page queue.  This option may
only be used on the
.B QuickPage
server.
.TP
.BI \-s
Specify the name(s) of the SNPP server(s).  The hostnames used by
a client to contact a server are
determined by checking the following in this order:
.LP
.RS
.RS
.PD 0
the
.B \-s
option
.TP
the environment variable SNPP_SERVER
.TP
the contents of the compiled in filename
.TP
the compiled in hostname
.PD
.RE
.LP
Multiple hostnames are permitted by separating them with commas.
If multiple servers are used, it is assumed that they all have identical
copies of the configuration file.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-v
Print the version of
.B QuickPage
and exit.
.LP
The
.B QuickPage
server requires a configuration file.  This file is read
one time during startup and again upon receipt of SIGHUP.
The configuration file
is made up of major and minor keyword=value pairs.
Major keywords must start at the beginning of a line.
Minor keywords must contain leading whitespace.
All keywords must be immediately followed with an equal sign (=).
Spaces are permitted between the equal sign and the value.  The
value may not contain whitespace.
Keywords may appear in any order with the following four exceptions:
.RS
.LP
Minor keywords must be grouped together under their respective major keyword.
.LP
Modems must be defined before any services that reference them.
.LP
Services must be defined before any pagers that reference them.
.LP
Pagers must be defined before any groups that reference them.
.RE
.LP
The major keywords are:
.RS
.TP 15
administrator
The e-mail address of the
.B QuickPage
administrator.  If defined, e-mail
notification will be sent to the
.B QuickPage
administrator whenever a page fails (i.e. when
.B maxtries
has been exceeded).
This address is also used in the Reply-To: header for status notification
messages sent to users who submit high-priority pages. 
.TP
forcehostname
(true, false, or @mailhost)
Force the destination
address to be qualified with a hostname
when sending e-mail status notification to users.
This option can be used when the
.B QuickPage
daemon is running on a machine that does not
handle unqualified e-mail addresses correctly.
If the value of this keyword starts with the '@' character,
it will be appended as-is to unqualified e-mail addresses.
If the value of this keyword is "true" then the submitter's hostname
will be appended to such addresses.
The default is false (do not append hostnames).
.TP
identtimeout
The number of seconds to wait for a reply
before giving up on RFC-1413 queries.
An integer less than or equal to zero disables ident functionality.
The default is 10 seconds.
.TP
include
If present, this keyword specifies the name of another configuration
file that should be processed at this point.  Processing of the
current file resumes after the specified file has been processed.
.B QuickPage
makes no attempt to prevent infinite recursion; do not use this keyword
in multiple files that point at each other.
.TP
pidfile
If present, this keyword specifies a file into which the server
should write its process ID.  For security reasons, the file must
already exist and it must be writable by the userid in effect while
the server is running.  If either if these conditions are not
satisfied, this keyword is silently ignored.
.TP
sigfile
If present, this keyword specifies a file containing an alternate
signature that qpage should append to e-mail status notification
messages sent to page submitters.  Use sigfile=/dev/null to suppress
the signature completely.
.TP
synchronous
(true or false)
Whether or not queue runs are synchronized with new pages.
If true, the submission of a new page initiates a queue run without
waiting for the normal sleep counter (set by the \-q option).  If false,
the page is queued and the server waits for the time remaining on
the sleep counter (if any) before starting another queue run.
The default is true.
.TP
lockdir
The location of the lock directory.
This keyword may be used to override the compiled in location
of the lock directory.
It should rarely be necessary to specify this keyword.
.TP
snpptimeout
The number of seconds to wait for an SNPP command before
terminating the connection.
The default is 60 seconds.
.TP
queuedir
The location of the page queue.
There is no default queue directory; this option must be specified
in the configuration file.
.TP
modem
The start of a modem definition.
The argument to this keyword is the name of a modem device (e.g. hayes).
This keyword has the following minor keywords:
.RS
.TP 15
text
Optional text specified by the administrator.  This text may not
contain whitespace.  However, underscores are converted to spaces
when the value of this keyword is read.
This keyword is not interpreted by
.B QuickPage
and is only provided for the administrator's convenience.
.TP
device
The name of the device the modem is physically connected
to, such as /dev/cua/a.
There is no default device; this option must be specified
in the configuration file.
.TP
initcmd
The initialization command for this modem.
The initialization command must cause the modem to respond
with OK.
The default initialization command is ATZ.
dialcmd
The dial command for this modem.  The dial command specified here
should not contain any phone number.
The default dial command is ATDT.
.RE
.TP
service
The start of a paging service definition.
The argument to this keyword is the name of the paging service.
If a service named
.B default
exists, the values of its minor keywords are used as defaults for
all other service definitions.
This keyword has the following minor keywords:
.RS
.TP 15
text
Optional text specified by the administrator.  This text may not
contain whitespace.  However, underscores are converted to spaces
when the value of this keyword is read.
This keyword is not interpreted by
.B QuickPage
and is only provided for the administrator's convenience.
.TP
device
One or more names of modem definitions.  Multiple modems may be
specified by separating them with commas.
For backward compatibility with previous
.B QuickPage
versions, a physical device path may be specified here.  However,
this may not be supported in future releases; modem definitions
should be used instead.
.TP
dialcmd
The command that the modem should use to connect to the remote
paging service.  This keyword is accepted for backward compatibility
with previous
.B QuickPage
versions and may not be supported in future releases.  If specified,
this keyword overrides the dialcmd keyword in all modem
specifications used by this service.
.TP
phone
The phone number of the paging service.  The specified phone number
will be appended to the modem's dialcmd when calling the paging
service.
.TP
password
The password to use when logging into the remote paging service.
The IXO specification defines the password as an optional six
character alphanumeric string.  Most paging services in the
United States do not require a password.
The default is an empty string ("").
.TP
baudrate
The speed to use while talking to the modem.
The default is 300 baud.
.TP
parity
The parity to use (even, odd, or none) while talking to the modem.
The default is even.
.TP
maxmsgsize
The maximum number of characters allowed in a single
page segment.
The default is 80 characters.
.TP
maxpages
The maximum number of page segments to send when a message exceeds
.B maxmsgsize.
The value of this option must be between 1 and 9, inclusive.
The default is 9 page segments.
.TP
maxtries
The number of times to attempt sending a page before giving up.
If the modem is busy (i.e. tip or cu is currently using it) or if
the modem returns BUSY in response to the dial command, the counter
is not incremented.  Thus a busy modem will cause
.B QuickPage
to retry the page forever.
The default is 6.
.TP
identfrom
(true or false)
This keyword specifies whether to use the ident response as the
message prefix if no CALLerid SNPP command is received.
The default is true.
.TP
allowpid
(true or false)
This keyword specifies whether the
.B QuickPage
daemon will accept numeric pagerids for pagers not specified in
the configuration file.  The default service is
used for such pagerids unless the user explicitly chooses a
different service.
The default for this keyword is false.
.TP
msgprefix
(true or false)
Whether to prepend the sender's name (the CALLerid information)
to the beginning of each page segment.  This keyword can be set
to false for paging services that support numeric pagers if the
message contains only digits.
The default for this keyword is true.
.RE
.TP
pager
The start of a pager definition.
The argument to this keyword is the username associated with the pager.
This username will be specified by the
.B \-p
option on the command line when running
.B QuickPage
in client mode.
This keyword has the following minor keywords:
.RS
.TP 15
text
Optional text specified by the administrator.  This text may not
contain whitespace.  However, underscores are converted to spaces
when the value of this keyword is read.
Pager specifications containing this keyword will be listed by
the XWHO SNPP command.
See the NOTES section below for more information.
.TP
pagerid
The pagerid sent to the remote paging service for this pager.
.TP
service
The default service to use for this pager.
.RE
.TP
group
The start of a group definition.  The argument to this keyword is
the name of a new page group.  This keyword has the following minor
keywords:
.RS
.TP 15
text
Optional text specified by the administrator.  This text may not
contain whitespace.  However, underscores are converted to spaces
when the value of this keyword is read.
Group specifications containing this keyword will be listed by
the XWHO SNPP command.
See the NOTES section below for more information.
.TP
member
A member of this group.  The member must have a valid
.B pager
entry before this group definition.  An optional duty schedule (see below)
may be specified.
This keyword may appear multiple times within a single group.
.RE
.RE
.LP
The service named "default" always exists (even if not specified in
the configuration file) and has the default
values listed above.  However, the default service may be redefined
in the configuration file if desired.
.LP
Member definitions within a page group have the syntax:
.RS
.LP
member=name[/DayStart-End]
.LP
.RE
Where the square brackets indicate an optional duty schedule.
The duty schedule has the same syntax as the
.B Time
parameter in the UUCP
.B Systems
file:
.B Day
is a list of case-sensitive weekday abbreviations (e.g. MoTuTh),
.B Start
is the start time (e.g. 800), and
.B End
is the end time (e.g. 1700).
The word
.B Any
is synonymous with
.B SuMoTuWeThFrSa.
Midnight may be represented as either 0 or 2400.
The time range must not span across midnight.
A slash is required to separate the duty schedule from the member name.
Multiple member definitions for the same person with different duty
schedules are permitted (see the example below).
Overlapping duty schedules for the same person within a group will
not cause duplicate pages to be sent to that person.
See the following example configuration file:
.RS

#
.br
# QuickPage configuration file
.br
#
.br
administrator=tomiii@qpage.org
.br
identtimeout=5
.br
queuedir=/var/spool/qpage

modem=ttya
.RS
device=/dev/cua/a
.RE

# use the S7 modem register to set a connection timeout
.br
modem=ttyb
.RS
device=/dev/cua/b
.br
initcmd=ATS7=45V1Q2&K0&M0
.RE

service=airtouch
.RS
device=ttya,ttyb
.br
phone=9,9500572
.br
baudrate=1200
.br
allowpid=yes
.br
maxtries=6
.RE

service=skytel
.RS
device=ttya
.br
phone=9,18007596366
.RE

service=supercom
.RS
device=ttya
.br
phone=9,4879889
.RE

pager=tomiii
.RS
pagerid=1234567
.br
service=skytel
.RE

pager=ginger
.RS
pagerid=5551212
.br
service=skytel
.RE

pager=tony
.RS
pagerid=711
.br
service=supercom
.RE

group=sysadmin
.RS
member=tomiii/MoWeFr800-1700
.br
member=tony/TuTh800-1700
.br
member=tony/SaSu900-1600
.RE
.RE
.SH NOTES
The order of the command line options is important.  The
.B \-a,
.B \-c,
and
.B \-l
options must precede the pagerids they refer to.
.LP
The
.B \-p
option resets
.B \-a,
.B \-c,
and
.B \-l
to their default values after it is processed.
If this behavior is not desired, use
.B \-P
instead.
.LP
All 8-bit characters are stripped to 7 bits before they are
transmitted to the paging service, regardless of the parity
setting defined in the configuration file.
Also, all control characters
(ASCII values between 0x00 and 0x20) are "escaped" as specified
by the IXO/TAP protocol.  Escaping is done by converting each
control character into two bytes consisting of a SUB (0x1A)
character followed by the printable ASCII character formed
by adding 0x40 to the ASCII value of the control character.
Thus, Ctrl-A is transmitted as the two-byte sequence 0x1A, 0x41.
.LP
.B QuickPage
daemon listens for
incoming SNPP connections and periodically processes the page
queue.  A child process is created to handle each incoming request
and each queue run.
.LP
After a page is accepted, the child sends SIGUSR1 to its parent
forcing it to start a queue run immediately without waiting for
the time specified by \-q.  If desired, this signal can be suppressed
using the "synchronous" keyword described above.
.LP
The page queue is locked during
queue runs to prevent multiple processes from competing for modem
resources.
.LP
The
.B QuickPage
SNPP daemon supports a proprietary XWHO command not documented in
the official SNPP protocol as described in RFC-1861.  XWHO takes no
arguments and returns a multi-line response of the form:
.LP
.RS
214 pager1 text1
.br
214 pager2 text2
.br
214 pager3 text3
.br
\ .
.br
\ .
.br
\ .
.br
214 pagerN textN
.br
250
.RE
.LP
where the first word after the 214 response code is the name of a pager
or page group, followed by the value of the corresponding text
keyword (with underscores converted to spaces) from the configuration
file.  Pager and group specifications that do not have the text
keyword defined in the configuration file will not be included
in the XWHO response.  The purpose of the XWHO command is to
allow SNPP clients to present users with a list of possible
recipients and their names or descriptions.  XWHO is supported by
.B QuickPage
in an attempt to overcome the current SNPP protocol's deficiency.
If the protocol is ever revised in the future to include this
functionality, support for the XWHO command will be dropped in
favor of whatever facilities are specified at that time.
Software developers writing their own SNPP clients should be
advised that the XWHO command is not stable and may be removed
from future versions of
.B QuickPage
without notice.
.LP
If the CALLerid information received by the
.B QuickPage
daemon contains the '@' character, it is truncated at that character
before being prepended to messages.  However, it is used as-is for
the destination address when sending e-mail notification for
high-priority recipients.
.LP
Due to the protocol limitations of SNPP,
.B QuickPage
derives e-mail notification addresses from the
.B CALLerid
information.
Since the
.B CALLerid
information might be bogus, all e-mail notifications
are sent using a null reverse path.
This will prevent error messages from being generated by the
mail system if a bogus address is used for e-mail notification.
.LP
If the server does not receive a
.B CALLerid
command (sent by the
.B QuickPage
client unless \-f"" is specified on the command line)
notification messages will not be sent, regardless of the
specified service level.
.LP
When the
.B \-m
flag is used to send a high-priority page,
the status notification is sent
to the return address in the original e-mail message
unless overridden by the
.B \-f
option.
.LP
The length of SNPP commands is limited only by the amount of memory
available to
.B QuickPage.
.LP
.B QuickPage
uses a timeout of 255 seconds while waiting for a connection from the
remote modem.  This allows the administrator to specify an
appropriate timeout
by setting the modem's S7 register in the dial command.
.LP
The modem must control the CD (carrier-detect) line.
Otherwise, the on/off hook status of the modem cannot be determined.
This is especially important
if more than one paging service is used since
.B QuickPage
must be able to detect when it's safe to send dial commands to the modem.
.LP
.SH FILES
/etc/qpage.cf
.SH SEE ALSO
.B RFC-1861
.SH KNOWN BUGS
Pages are not queued on the client side.  As a result, if no
servers are available to the client at the time a page is submitted,
an error message is printed and the page is discarded.
.LP
Pages received after a queue run has started will not be processed
until the following queue run.
.LP
The default service requires a phone keyword (just like the rest of
the service definitions), even if no pager entries specifically
reference the default service.
.LP
Please send bug reports to tomiii@qpage.org.
.SH AUTHOR
.B QuickPage
was written by Thomas Dwyer III <tomiii@qpage.org> and is provided
to the internet community free of charge.
.LP
Copyright (c) 1995-1998 Thomas Dwyer III
