'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rexecd.8c	6.2 (Berkeley) 5/9/86
.\"
.TH REXECD 1M
.UC 5
.SH NAME
rexecd \- remote execution server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rexecd
[
.B -l
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rexecd
is the server for the 
.IR rexec (3N)
routine.  The server provides remote execution facilities
with authentication based on user names and
passwords.
\fBNOTE\fP: password aging is not supported by this daemon.
.PP
.I Rexecd
listens for service requests at the port indicated in
the ``exec'' service specification; see
.IR services (4).
When a service request is received the following protocol
is initiated:
.IP 1)
The server reads characters from the socket up
to a null (`\e0') byte.  The resultant string is
interpreted as an ASCII number, base 10.
.IP 2)
If the number received in step 1 is non-zero,
it is interpreted as the port number of a secondary
stream to be used for the 
.BR stderr .
A second connection is then created to the specified
port on the client's machine.
.IP 3)
A null-terminated user name of at most 16 characters
is retrieved on the initial socket.
.IP 4)
A null-terminated, unencrypted password of at most
16 characters is retrieved on the initial socket.  
.IP 5)
A null-terminated command to be passed to a
shell is retrieved on the initial socket.  The length of
the command is limited by the upper bound on the size of
the system's argument list.  
.IP 6)
.I Rexecd
then validates the user as is done at login time
and, if the authentication was successful, changes
to the user's home directory, and establishes the user
and group protections of the user.
If any of these steps fail the connection is
aborted with a diagnostic message returned.
.IP 7)
A null byte is returned on the initial socket
and the command line is passed to the normal login
shell of the user.  The
shell inherits the network connections established
by
.IR rexecd .
.SH SHARE II ACTIONS
If the Share II system is installed and enabled, then
the following privilege and resource checks are made
immediately after validation checks are complete
(\f4rshd\f1(1))
but before the shell is started:
.IP 1. 4n
If your
\f4nologin\f1
flag is set, or you already have another connection and your
\f4onelogin\f1
flag is set, then you are denied connection.
.IP 2.
If a disk usage exceeds the soft disk limit in any of your domains,
then a message is printed and you are given a
\f2warning\f1.
If you accumulate too many warnings, further connection attempts are denied and
you must see your subadministrator to rectify the situation.
Whenever you connect with no disk usages in excess of any soft limits,
all your accumulated warnings are cleared.
.IP 3.
If you do not have permission to use an
\f4rexec\f1
connection, as determined by the terminal permission flag
\f4terminal.flag.rexec\f1,
then you are denied connection.
.IP 4.
Some installations place limits on terminal connect-time,
which apply equally to connection by way of 
\f4rexec\f1.
If you have already reached your connect-time limit, then you are
denied connection.
Otherwise, if you have a limit, your remaining connect-time is printed.
.PP
If all these checks are passed,
\f4rexecd\f1
proceeds normally.
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -l
This option causes all successful accesses to be logged to
.IR syslogd (1M)
as
.I auth.info
messages.
.SH FILES
.TP \w'/etc/limconf'u+3m
\f4/etc/limconf\f1
The compiled Share II configuration file (machine readable).
.SH SEE ALSO
login(1), rshd(1M), rexec(3N), passwd(4), share(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Except for the last one listed below,
all diagnostic messages are returned on the initial socket,
after which any network connections are closed.
An error is indicated by a leading byte with a value of
1 (0 is returned in step 7 above upon successful completion
of all the steps prior to the command execution).
.PP
.B ``username too long''
.br
The name is
longer than 16 characters.
.PP
.B ``password too long''
.br
The password is longer than 16 characters.
.PP
.B ``command too long ''
.br
The command line passed exceeds the size of the argument
list (as configured into the system).
.PP
.B ``Login incorrect.''
.br
No password file entry for the user name existed.
(Also logged to the 
.IR syslogd (1M)
daemon as an
.I auth.notice 
message.)
.PP
.B ``Password incorrect.''
.br
The wrong was password supplied.
(Also logged to the 
.IR syslogd (1M)
daemon as an 
.I auth.notice 
message.)
.PP
.B ``No remote directory.''
.br
The 
.I chdir
command to the home directory failed.
.PP
.B ``Try again.''
.br
A
.I fork
by the server failed.
.PP
.B ``<shellname>: ...''
.br
The user's login shell could not be started.
This message is returned
on the connection associated with the
.BR stderr ,
and is not preceded by a flag byte.
.br
.PP
The Share II specific diagnostic messages are listed as follows:
.PP
\f3``Warning <X> of <Y>: soft disk limit exceeded.''\fP
.br
One of your domains has a disk usage in excess of its soft limit.
.PP
\f3``Connection denied.  Too many warnings.''\fP
.br
You have reached your warning limit.  See your subadministrator.
.PP
\f3``Connection denied.  Already logged in \- only one login allowed.''\fP
.br
You are already connected to the system and your
\f4onelogin\f1
flag is set.
.PP
\f3``Connection denied.  Currently barred from logging in.''\fP
.br
Your
\f4nologin\f1
flag is set.
.PP
\f3``Connection denied.  No permission to use this terminal.''\fP
.br
You are not allowed to log in at this terminal because of a clear
\f4terminal.flag.rexec\f1
flag.
.PP
\f3``You have a remaining terminal connect-time of <Y>.''\fP
.br
You may use this connection until you have used up your remaining
connect-time, at which point you are forced to disconnect.
.PP
\f3``Connection denied.  Terminal connect-time limit exceeded.''\fP
.br
You have already reached your terminal connect-time limit.
.PP
\f3``Share not configured \- no limit checks.''\fP
.br
The configuration file is unreadable for some reason, so
terminal privileges, connect-time limits and disk space limits
could not be checked.
.SH BUGS
Indicating ``Login incorrect'' as opposed to ``Password incorrect''
is a security breach which allows people to probe a system for users
with null passwords.
.PP
A facility to allow all data and password exchanges to be encrypted should be
present.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
