'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g1a.rpcbind @(#)rpcbind	41.1 of 5/16/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} rpcbind 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} rpcbind 1M ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} rpcbind 1M "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} rpcbind "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4rpcbind\f1 \- universal addresses to RPC program number mapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/rpcbind
[
.B \-mC
]
[
.B \-f
.I forkcnt
]
[
.B \-a
.IR mask , match
|
.B \-a
.IR match
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4rpcbind\f1
is a server that converts RPC
program numbers into
universal addresses.
It must be running to make RPC calls.
.P
When an RPC service is started,
it will tell
\f4rpcbind\f1
at what address it is listening,
and what RPC
program numbers it is prepared to serve.
When a client wishes to make an RPC
call to a given program number,
it will first contact
\f4rpcbind\f1
on the server machine to determine
the address where RPC
packets should be sent.
.P
Normally, standard RPC
servers are started by
port monitors,
so
\f4rpcbind\f1
must be started before
port monitors are invoked.
.P
\f4rpcbind\f1 is restricted to users with the \f4root\fP user ID.
.\"If you are running the Enhanced Security Utilities,
.\"\f4rpcbind\fP is restricted to root with the appropriate privileges.
.P
Options to customize
\f4rpcbind\f1's
behavior
are read from the file
.I /etc/config/rpcbind.options
during system initialization.
The options are:
.TP
.B \-m
Enable reception of RPC requests sent to
\f4rpcbind\f1's
multicast address.
.TP
.B \-C
Turn on compatibility mode.  This will allow local applications to
register with \f4rpcbind\f1 using a network address other 
than the loopback address.  Applications that do not use the SGI-provided
RPC interfaces to register with rpcbind may require this option to 
function properly.  However, use of this option will also introduce a known 
\f4security\f1 problem.
.TP
\f3\-f  \f2forkcnt\f1
Ignored by \f4rpcbind\f1. It is supplied to provide command line
compatibility with \f3portmap\f1.
.TP
\f4\-w\f1
When \f4rpcbind\f1 receives a SIGINT signal, it saves a copy of its
configuration in /tmp/rpcbind.file. The \f4\-w\f1 switch causes
\f4rpcbind\f1 to warm start and preconfigure itself from this file when
it is started.
.TP
\f3\-a  \f2mask\f1,\f2match\f1
.sp -.5v
.TP
\f3\-a  \f2match\fP
This option permits restriction of most of the \f4rpcbind\f1 services to
a subset of hosts or networks. (The \f4rpcbind\f1 null procedure is not
restricted.)
The
.IR mask ,
and
.I match
arguments are IP addresses in Internet dot notation (see
.IR inet (3N))
that represent masks, hosts or networks.
The \f2mask\fP and \f2match\fP arguments must be separated by a comma
with no intervening whitespace.
If \f2mask\fP and the comma are missing,
the argument is interpreted as a Class A, B, or C network number
and the mask is set to the value appropriate for the network's class.
.RS
.LP
The
.B \-a
option can be repeated up to 50 times.
For each mask and match specified,
the requesting client host's address is logically-ANDed with \f2mask\fP;
if the result equals \f2match\fP, the client's request is processed.
If none of the mask-match comparisons succeed, the request is rejected.
Requests from all of the local host's addresses are always permitted.
.RE
.TP
.B \-A
This option is equivalent to a series of \f3\-a\f1 options
listing all of the addresses of interfaces on the machine, with
their netmasks.
It is convenient for authorizing hosts on directly connected
networks and point-to-point links without explicitly enumerating
the networks.
The restrictions defined by \f3\-A\f1 do not count against the limit
of 50 \f3\-a\f1 options.
.PP
For example, if
.I /etc/config/rpcbind.options
contains 
.Ex
-a 255.255.255.0,128.32.199.0
-a 192.0.2.0
-a 255.255.255.255,192.26.51.3
.Ee
access is restricted to any host on the Class B 128.32.199 subnet
or the Class C 192.0.2 network or to the host with the 192.26.51.3 address.
Requests from clients on any other networks will be rejected.
.RE
.PP
.SH NOTES
If
\f4rpcbind\f1
crashes, all RPC servers must be restarted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rpcinfo(1M), portmap(1M)
