.TH satd 1M
.SH NAME
satd \- reliably save the system audit trail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3satd\f1 [ \f3\-iov1\f1 ] [ \f3\-f\f1 path ... ] [ \f3\-r\f1 \c
replacement-mode ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I satd
saves its input data in the directories and/or files
named in its path arguments.
.PP
When one output path becomes full,
.I satd
replaces the current output path with a path that is not full.
The method of replacement is configurable with the
.B \-r
option.
The output path is also replaced if
.I satd
receives a
.B SIGHUP
signal, for instance one sent with a
.B kill -1
command.
.PP
If an output path becomes nearly full,
warnings are displayed to the system console
to notify the administrator to move the audit trail to tape.
If all of the output paths become completely full,
the system state is changed to single-user mode after a very
short grace period.
During the grace period,
.I satd
writes its records to
.IR \f2/sat/satd.emergency-<n> ,
where
.I <n>
is an integer that is incremented for each file created.
The system uses
the file \f2/sat/satd.reserve\f1 to maintain space for the emergency files.
.PP
See
.IR audit (1M)
or the
\f2IRIX Admin: Backup, Security, and Accounting\f1 guide
for more information on configuring the audit subsystem.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " path"
Specify an output path, which can be a directory or a file.
If the output path is a directory,
.I satd
creates and fills uniquely named files under that directory.
(Files are named for the time of their creation.
For instance, file
.I sat_9101231636
was created in 1991, on January 23 at 4:36 p.m.)
If the output path is a file,
.I satd
writes to that file.
.IP
When specifying several output paths in the command line,
precede each one with a
.B \-f
(as in example 1)
or put commas (but no white space) between each pathname.
Taken together, all of the output paths specified in the command line
are known as the
.I path
.IR list .
.IP
If no output paths are specified
and the
.B \-o
option is not specified,
the audit trail records are not saved anywhere, and the system is halted.
.IP
If a path given as a command line parameter
is invalid for any reason,
a warning is printed,
that path is omitted from the path list,
and
.I satd
continues operating with whatever specified paths are valid.
.IP
If the specified path does not already exist,
.I satd
creates a file with that name.
.IP
.\" A device is full when its storage medium is completely consumed.
A file or directory is full when the filesystem on which it resides
has no more available space.
If a directory is specified as an output path,
an audit file is constructed under that directory.
When the audit file is filled to an internally specified maximum size,
it is closed and a new audit file is created under that directory.
.TP
.B \-i
Input audit records from standard input
instead of obtaining them from the kernel audit subsystem.
.TP
.B \-o
Output audit records to standard output as well as
to the output paths specified with the
.B \-f
option.
Use this option to pipe the audit trail to audit tools from
.IR satd .
.IP
If the
.B \-o
option is given in the command line,
and no output paths are specified,
the audit trail is copied to standard output,
but it is not saved to a mass storage device.
If the
.B \-o
option is absent from the command line,
and no output paths are specified,
.I satd
takes records from the kernel audit subsystem,
but discards them unused.
.TP
.BI \-r " replacement-mode"
The replacement mode can be either
.BR preference ,
.BR rotation ,
or
.BR onepass .
The default replacement mode is
.BR preference .
If the replacement mode option appears
more than once in the command line,
.I satd
prints an error message and exits.
.IP
If the replacement mode is
.BR rotation ,
.I satd
replaces output paths in a circular order.
When the current output path is full,
.I satd
writes records to the next path in the list.
When the last output path is full,
.I satd
writes records to the first path again.
If at any time
.I satd
receives a
.B SIGHUP
signal,
.I satd
replaces the current output path
with the next path in the order of rotation.
.IP
If the replacement mode is
.BR preference ,
.I satd
always uses the available output path
closest to the beginning of the path list.
When the current output path is full,
.I satd
tries to write records to the first path again.
.I satd
only writes records to a path if all of the paths
preceding it in the list are full.
If at any time
.I satd
receives a
.B SIGHUP
signal,
.I satd
replaces the current output path
with the next path in the order of preference.
.IP
If the replacement mode is
.BR onepass ,
.I satd
replaces output paths in a linear order.
It uses the output paths in the order
they are specified in the command line.
If a
.B SIGHUP
signal is sent to
.I satd
before the end of the path list is reached,
.I satd
starts again from the beginning of the list.
If
.I satd
reaches the end of the path list before receiving a
.B SIGHUP
signal,
it halts the system immediately.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose indications of activity are printed to standard error.
.TP
.B \-1
Input data is consumed until the first time a
.I satread
system call returns with less data read than requested.
When the first partial buffer is read,
.I satd
exits.
The
.B \-1
option is used in debug and testing to flush the kernel audit buffers.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/etc/config/sat.options\ \ \ \ \ 'u
.nf
/sat/satd.emergency\-0	"emergency" audit file, \-0 through \-9
/sat/satd.reserve	file to reserve 250,000 bytes for above
/etc/init.d/audit	system audit startup script
/etc/config/audit	configuration file, \f3on\f1 if auditing is enabled
/etc/config/sat.options	optional file for site-dependent satd options
/var/adm/sat		default directory, specified in 
	\f2/etc/init.d/audit\f1
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\f7satd - ignoring path\f1 \f2<pathname>\f1
The specified output path doesn't exist or is not usable.
.I satd
ignores it and trying the next entry in the path list.
.TP
\f7path is neither directory, nor disk file\f1
The specified output path can't be used because it isn't one of the
object types understood by
.IR satd .
.I satd
ignores the path and tries the next entry in the path list.
.TP
\f7Onepass path search complete\f1
All the entries in the output path have been used.
Since
.I satd
has nowhere to put its audit records, it exits.
.TP
\f7Preference path search fails\f1
None of the entries in the output path are available for use.
Since
.I satd
has nowhere to put its audit records, it exits.
.TP
\f7Rotation path search fails\f1
None of the entries in the output path are available for use.
Since
.I satd
has nowhere to put its audit records, it exits.
.TP
\f7can't fstatfs\f1 \f2<pathname>\f1
The specified output path doesn't exist or is in an unreadable directory.
.I satd
ignores it and tries the next entry in the path list.
.TP
\f7path N percent full\f1
The auditor is advised to prepare to move the output file
to permanent storage, because the output path will become full soon.
.TP
\f7can't open\f1 \f2<pathname>\f1
The specified output path can't be opened for write access,
either because it doesn't exist, or because it has restrictive permissions.
.TP
\f7opening path\f1 \f2<pathname>\f1
The specified output path is being opened for use.
This message is only seen if
.I satd
was invoked with the
.B \-v
option (verbose mode).
.TP
\f7closing directory file\f1 \f2<pathname>\f1
The filenamed in this message is being closed.
If room remains in the filesystem,
a new file is opened in the same directory.
The auditor is advised to move the output file to permanent storage.
.TP
\f7null path pointer\f1
An internal error has been encountered in
.I satd.
.TP
\f7opened full path\f1 \f2<pathname>\f1
The specified output path was opened,
but it cannot be written because there is no space on the device.
It is closed, and the next entry in the path list is tried.
.TP
\f7Valid directory path but can't open file\f1
An internal error has been encountered in
.I satd.
.TP
\f7satd - sighup received\f1
A
.B SIGHUP
signal was caught, informing
.I satd
to replace the current output path
with another path from the list.
The new path is chosen in accordance with the replacement strategy
specified by the auditor with the
.B \-r
command line option.
This message is only seen if
.I satd
was invoked with the
.B \-v
option (verbose mode).
.TP
\f7satd - X asked but Y written\f1
Although
.I satd
tried to write X bytes of data,
it succeeded in writing only Y bytes.
.TP
\f7Only use one replacement strategy at a time\f1
More than one
.B \-r
option was provided as a command line option.
The three replacement strategies
(onepass, preference, and rotation)
are mutually exclusive.
Reinvoke
.I satd
with consistent command line arguments.
.TP
\f7Can't read sat buffer\f1
Audit records can't be obtained from the kernel sat subsystem,
probably due to insufficient privilege or access rights.
.TP
\f7Can't write sat buffer\f1
Even though
.I satd
was invoked with the
.B \-o
command line option,
it cannot write audit records to standard output.
.TP
\f7Can't send sat buffer\f1
Even though the output path has been opened successfully and is not full,
.I satd
cannot write audit records to the path.
.\"224555".SH EXAMPLES
.\"224555".PP
.\"224555"An Auditor has a bank of three audit disks.
.\"224555"He wants them filled one at a time, and he instructs the system
.\"224555"administrator to copy the contents to tape when a disk gets full.
.\"224555"The administrator has plenty of time to move one disk while
.\"224555"the other two are filling.
.\"224555"On this site, the security policy permits audit records to be discarded
.\"224555"rather than shutting the system down,
.\"224555"so if for some reason the administrator fails to clean the disks,
.\"224555"audit records are discarded - the records get sent to /dev/null.
.\"224555"When the administrator finally replaces the full disks,
.\"224555"he can use
.\"224555".B kill -1
.\"224555"to send
.\"224555".I satd
.\"224555"the signal that will cause it to rotate back to its first output path
.\"224555"(disk #1).
.\"224555"This command is issued:
.\"224555".sp
.\"224555".RS
.\"224555"satd -r rotation -f /sat1 -f /sat2 -f /sat3 -f /dev/null
.\"224555".RE
.\"224555".sp 1
.\"224555".PP
.\" A second Auditor at this site wants to conserve her mass storage medium
.\" by compressing the audit trail.  She lets one instance of
.\" .I satd
.\" collect audit records,
.\" pipes its output to
.\" .B compress(1),
.\" and pipes the output of
.\" .B compress(1)
.\" to a second instance of
.\" .I satd,
.\" which saves the audit records to disk files under the directory she specifies.
.\" She has set up procedures for archiving her audit files to tape periodically.
.\" This command is issued:
.\" .sp
.\" .RS
.\" satd -o \||\| compress \||\| satd -i -f /var/adm/sat
.\" .RE
.\" .PP
.\"224555"Another auditor saves the audit trail in disk files under
.\"224555"the directory she specifies.
.\"224555"She needs her audit files only for a short period of time,
.\"224555"so she periodically removes old files.
.\"224555".PP
.\"224555"She also happens to be particularly concerned about
.\"224555"an unscrupulous user named
.\"224555".I aaron,
.\"224555"and she wants to see if
.\"224555".I aaron
.\"224555"will engage in suspicious activity between 1:00 am and 5:00 am tonight.
.\"224555"She pipes audit records to the audit tools
.\"224555".I sat_reduce
.\"224555"and
.\"224555".I sat_summarize.
.\"224555"This command is issued:
.\"224555".sp 1
.\"224555".RS
.\"224555"satd -f /usr/tmp/auditdir -o \||\| sat_reduce -u aaron
.\"224555"-A 04010100 -a 04010500 \||\| sat_summarize -e
.\"224555".RE
.\"224555".PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kill(1),
mkdir(1),
mknod(1M),
sat_interpret(1M),
sat_reduce(1M),
sat_select(1M),
sat_summarize(1M),
satread(2).
