.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)savecore.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 5/24/86
.\"
.TH savecore 1M "July 13, 1993"
.SH NAME
savecore \- save a crash vmcore dump of the operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/etc/savecore\f1 [ \f3\-f\f1 ] [ \f3\-v\f1 ] \f2dirname\f1 [ \f2system\f1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I savecore
is meant to be called by
.IR /etc/rc2.d/S48savecore .
.I savecore
attempts to save the core dump of the system (assuming one was
made) and write a reboot message in the shutdown log.
The
.I S48savecore
script will save all output files to
.IR dirname ,
which defaults to
.IR /var/adm/crash ,
unless overridden by
site-specific command-line options in the file
.IR /etc/config/savecore.options .
.PP
In the event of a software-detectable system crash, one of
the last steps that the kernel performs before shutting down
is to write the contents of system memory to the dump
device.  There are several ways in which this information
can be used to determine the cause and solution to the
crash.
.PP
The dump device normally defaults to
.IR /dev/swap .
The process of creating the dump image will overwrite any data on the dump
device.
Thus, the dump device must be a raw partition that does not
contain any data that needs to be preserved across a system crash (which
is why
.I /dev/swap
is the obvious candidate for the dump device).
As each page of memory is
written to the dump device, it is compressed in order to save disk space.
.PP
On reboot, the
.I S48savecore
script initially checks the value of the savecore
.IR chkconfig (1M)
option.
By default, this option is on for all systems.
If it is turned off,
.IR icrash (1M)
will run against the compressed core image on the dump
device and write reports about the system crash to
.IR dirname .
The compressed core image on the dump device will not be saved to disk.
.PP
If the savecore
.IR chkconfig (1M)
option is left on,
.I savecore
will read the compressed core image saved on the dump device and write it
to the file
.IR dirname/vmcore.N.comp .
This core file can then be uncompressed using the
.IR uncompvm (1M)
command, although most utilities designed to look at system core files do
not require that the core file be uncompressed.
The core file also
has a header which contains certain information about the system crash.
This information can be retreived by running
.IR uncompvm (1M)
with the
.I \-h
option.
.PP
Making sense of any saved core image requires the symbol
table of the operating system that was running at the time of
the crash.
For that reason, if the savecore
.IR chkconfig (1M)
option is on when the
.I S48savecore
script runs,
.I savecore
will save the current default kernel boot file
.I /unix
as
.IR dirname/unix.N .
Otherwise,
.I /unix
will not be copied to
.IR dirname .
The trailing
.I .N
in the pathname is replaced by a number stored in the
.I dirname/bounds
file that grows every time
.I savecore
is run in that directory.
.PP
Before
.I savecore
writes out a core image, it reads a number from the file
.IR dirname /minfree.
If the number of free bytes on the filesystem that contains
.I dirname
is less than the number obtained from the
.I minfree
file, the core dump is not saved.
If the
.I minfree
file does not exist,
.I savecore
always writes out the core file (assuming that a core dump was taken).
.PP
.I savecore
also logs a reboot message using facility
LOG_AUTH
(see
.IR syslog (3C)) .
If the system crashed as a result of a panic,
.I savecore
logs the panic string also.
.PP
.I savecore
assumes that
.I /unix
corresponds to the running system at the time of the crash.
If the core dump was from a system other than
.IR /unix ,
the name of that system must be supplied as
.IR system .
.PP
The following options apply to
.IR savecore :
.TP
.B \-f
Ordinarily,
.I savecore
checks a magic number on the dump device
(usually
.IR /dev/swap )
to determine if a core dump was made.
This flag forces
.I savecore
to attempt to save the core image regardless of the state of this magic number.
This may be necessary since
.I savecore
always clears the magic number after reading it.
If a previous attempt to save the image failed in some manner,
it is still possible to restart the save with this option.
.TP
.B \-v
Give more verbose output.
.SH SCRIPT DIAGNOSTIC FILES
The
.I S48savecore
script creates a number of diagnostics files:
.TP 13
analysis.N
This file contains a report that has information specific
to the system crash.
It is created by \f2icrash\f1(1M) and
contains either an ICRASH CORE FILE REPORT, or a copy of
the core dump header.
.SH VMCORE CONTENTS
The size of the swap space is limited, and often smaller
than the system physical memory size, so a dump is likely to
be partial.  For this reason, the kernel takes steps to squeeze as
much information as possible into the available space.
.PP
The kernel uses run-length encoding to compress memory pages
as it stores them.  This lessens the impact of pages that
contain mostly zeroes.
.PP
The kernel first stores the putbuf, which contains the
system crash messages, followed by all memory in use by the
operating system, followed by all memory in use by user
processes, and finally all of the rest of free memory.  The
putbuf and operating system memory contain the most
important information and will generally fit in their
entirety.
.PP
The \f2systune\f1(1M) variable \f2dump_level\f1
controls the data dumped in a system crash, and may have
the following values:
.TP
\f43\f1 dump putbuf, kernel, user, and free pages (usual setting)
.TP
\f42\f1 dump putbuf, kernel, and user pages
.TP
\f41\f1 dump putbuf and kernel pages
.TP
\f40\f1 dump putbuf only
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\f7warning: /unix may not have created core file\f1
Printed if
.I savecore
believes that the system core file does not correspond
with the
.I /unix
operating system binary.
.TP
\f7savecore: /unix is not the running system\f1
Printed for
the obvious reason.
If the system that crashed was
.IR /unix ,
use
.IR mv (1)
to change its name before running
.IR savecore .
Use
.IR mv (1)
or
.IR ln (1)
to rename or produce a link
to the name of the file of the
currently running operating system binary.
This enables
.I savecore
to find name list information about the current state of the
running system from the file
.IR /unix .
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/etc/config/savecore.optionsxxx'u
/unix		current IRIX
/var/adm/crash	default place to create dump files
/var/adm/crash/bounds	number for next dump file
/var/adm/crash/minfree	minimum filesystem free space
/var/adm/crash/analysis.N	file created by \f2icrash\f1(1M) that contains
	information about the core dump
/etc/config/savecore.options	site-specific command-line options
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
uncompvm(1M), nlist(3X), icrash(1M), chkconfig(1M).
