.TH scsiadminswap 1M
.SH NAME
scsiadminswap \- perform a live plug or unplug of a scsi device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3scsiadminswap\f1 [ options ]
.sp .8v
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

\f2scsiadminswap\f1 allows a user to live plug or unplug a scsi device
assuming it is not a primary resource (such as the system disk).  There
are three required options.  These indicate whether to perform a plug or an
unplug and provide a bus and device number.  An additional argument can be
used to change the default timeout value.  To execute \f2scsiadminswap\f1,
a user must have root status.  

There are many different ways that a disk may be accessed.  While this man
page outlines and gives examples of the more common ones, if there is any
question the user should check the man pages for umount, mount, or the
Insight book "SGI Admin: IRIX Admin: Disks and Filesystems."  If the disk
is being used as part of an xlv volume more information can be found via
man on xlv_mgr, xlv_make, xlv_assemble, xlv_shutdown, or chapter 4 of the
above Insight book.

.B Unplugging a disk:

Before executing the \f2scsiadminswap\f1 unplug, all the file systems of the
disk in question must be unmounted (see \f2umount(1M)\f1), detached (if a
mirrored xlv volume) see xlv_mgr(1M).  To do so it may be necessary to use
\f2fuser(1M)\f1 to kill any processes using the file systems.  If a file
system on the disk is an unmirrored xlv volume it is also necessary to
execute an \f2xlv_shutdown(1M)\f1 after the umount.  For each file system
on the disk one of the following steps should be taken.  After one of the
below cases (or other as needed) has been performed for all file systems on
the disk then run scsiadminswap -u -b # -d #.

.nf
.ta
Case 1: the file system is not an xlv volume
1) Unmount the file system
  a) Hint: fuser finds and kills processes using a file system.

Case 2: the file system is an unmirrored xlv volume:
1) Unmount the file system
  a) Hint: fuser finds and kills processes using a file system.
2) Perform an xlv_shutdown. 

Case 3: the file system is a mirrored xlv volume:
1) Run xlv_mgr and perform a detach of the plex using the disk.
.fi

.B Plugging in a disk:

First run scsiadminswap -p -b # -d #.  Now the file system may need to be
mounted (see \f2mount(1M)\f1) or made part of an xlv volume.  If the disk
is going to be part of a mirrored volume and already has vlx header
information, an xlv_assemble(1M) should be performed.  If the disk is going
to be part of a mirrored volume but does not have xlv header information an
xlv_make(1M) should be performed before the xlv_assemble(1M).  If the disk
had old (from a different volume) xlv information then perform a delete
using xlv_mgr(1M) before either of the above steps).  Depending on what
needs to be done one of the following cases may apply.

.nf
.ta
Case 1: the file system is not an xlv volume
1) Mount the file system

Case 2: the file system contains no prior xlv information
        and will be an unmirrored xlv volume:
1) Perform an xlv_make
2) Run xlv_mgr and perform an attach.
3) Mount the file system

Case 3: the file system is on a disk without prior xlv 
	information and will be a mirrored xlv volume:
1) Mount the file system
2) Perform an xlv_assemble.

Case 4 & 5: As 2 & 3, except the disk has old xlv_info:
1) Run xlv_mgr and perform a delete of the xlv label information
2) Go to Case 2 or 3
.fi

The above cases for plug and unplug only cover the common xlv situations.
More information regarding xlv volumes can be found in the "SGI Admin: IRIX
Admin: Disks and Filesystems" Insight Book.  Also see the .B Examples
section at the end of the man page for a sample session.

.PP
The required options are:
.PP
.TP 13
.B \-u or \-p
Indicates whether operation is an (u)nplug or a (p)lug.  If both are
specified, it will be report as an error.
.TP 13
.B \-b bus
Specifies the scsi bus for the device.
.TP 13
.B \-d device number
Specifies the slot number for the drive to be removed or inserted.
.TP 13
Additional options:
.TP 13
.B \-t secs
Specifies the number of seconds the command will wait while the drive is
inserted or removed.  This default value is 300 (5 minutes).  This is the
amount of time the command will wait before automatically continuing with
the sequence.  In general the command continues when the user hits enter
after having inserted or removed the drive.
.TP 13
.B \-f
Force the command to occur even if it discovers there are still mounted
file systems, or file systems in use.  This is very dangerous.

.SH Examples

The following sequence of commands could be used to swap a disk in slot 2
with partition 7 mounted as /x

.nf
.ta
umount /x
scsiadminswap -u -b 0 -d 2
scsiadminswap -p -b 0 -d 2
mount -t xfs /dev/dsk/dks0d2s7 /x
.fi

The following sequence of commands could be used to swap a disk containing
old xlv information into slot 2 with partition 7 mounted as a unmirrored
xlv volume named /lv1.

.nf
.ta
umount /lv1
xlv_shutdown -n sample_vol
scsiadminswap -p -u -b 0 -d 2
xlv_mgr -xc "delete label /dev/rdsk/dks0d2vh" (delete old label information)
xlv_make (see xlv_make man page for examples)
xlv_mgr (perform attach)
mount -t xfs /dev/dsk/dks0d2s7 /lv1
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
fuser(1M), mount(1M), umount(1M), xlv_assemble(1M), xlv_make(1M),
xlv_mgr(1M), xlv_shutdown(1M), fstab(4), mtab(4), scsiha(7M).

.SH WARNINGS

Care should be take when using the \f2scsiadminswap\f1 command.  There are
periods when the scsi bus is in a sensitive state.  The command should
always be allowed to continue to completion.  Keep the amount of time it
takes to remove or insert the drive to a minimum.  The most sensitive time
occurs during the unplug operation while the command is waiting for the
drive to be removed.  During this period no other data can be written to
any device on the bus from which the drive is being removed.  If the drive
can not be removed or inserted in the requested time do NOT kill the
command half way through, let it finish and re-try again later.  Killing
the command during execution will leave the scsi bus in a bad state.  Also
to help ensure command success and prevent the system from failing, any
file systems on the disk to be removed should not currently be in use.

.SH NOTE

The Performance Co-Pilot (see
.I PCP(1))
may be used to monitor SCSI devices, however 
configuration changes by
.I scsiadminswap
may not be asynchronously detected.
If SCSI devices are being monitored,
.I libirixpmda(5)
may be notified and forced to reset using the command:

.in 1.5i
.ft CW
.nf
> pmstore irix.xbow.switch 1
.fi
.ft R
.in
