'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SLIP 1M
.UC 4
.SH NAME
slip, if_sl, if_sl.o \- Serial Line IP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slip
[\f3\-dcI\f1\] [\f3\-m \f2netmask\f1] [\f3\-M \f2metric\f1] [\f3\-s\f2 MTU\f1] [\f3\-A \f2atime\f1]
    [\f3\-P \f2port\f1] [\f3\-T \f2icmp_type\f1] [\f3\-R \f2"routecmd"\f1] [\f3\-S \f2smod\f1]
    [\f3\-p \f2proto\f1] [\f3\-u \f2uucp\f1] [\f3\-l \f2local\f1] \f3\-r \f2remote\f1 {\f3\-i\f1|\f3\-o\f1|\f3-q\f1}
.SH DESCRIPTION
SLIP or SL/IP stands for Serial Line Internet Protocol.
It is used to extend a local area network using low speed telephone lines.
It can be used to transfer data between machines which
are using TCP/IP or UDP/IP.
The modems and communications lines used with SLIP are relatively
inexpensive, and operate at 2400 to 38,400 bits/second.
This makes SLIP appropriate for remote sessions and modest file transfers.
.PP
The \f3slip\fP program is used to connect to a remote machine.
It does everything necessary to permit network data to reach the modem,
and to connect the TTY port to the rest the network system.
It does things that are done by
.BR ifconfig (1M)
for other network interfaces.
The result is a "point-to-point" link that can be part of an existing
IP interwork.
.PP
There are three main modes of the \f3slip\fP program.
When simply dialing a remote machine, the
.B \-o
or "output" argument should be used.
When simply answering the telephone or using an existing link, the
.B \-i
or "input" flag must be used.
.PP
When starting a "demand-dialing" link, the 
.B \-q
or "quiet" flag must be used.
"Demand-dialing" or "quiet" mode is one in which the link is made
only when needed by network activity.  
When there is no activity, the link is turned off.
When activity begins the modem link is established.
Activity is defined as packets that are not of certain types.
By default, UDP and TCP packets to or from ports "daytime" (13),
"time" (37), "route" (520), 123 (ntp), and "timed" (525)
(see \f2/etc/services\fP)
and ICMP packets of types ICMP_UNREACH, ICMP_SOURCEQUENCH,
ICMP_TSTAMP, and ICMP_TSTAMPREPLY 
are not counted as activity.
These lists can be changed with the \f3\-P\f1 and \f3\-T\f1 arguments.
.PP
While a \f3quiet\fP mode connection can be started at the receiving
end of a connection, it may not have the desired effect.
The daemon does not expect to use the serial connection
to its standard input in quiet mode.
If started in quiet mode as the result of the remote system dialing in, 
the daemon will ignore the incoming serial connection.
It expects to wait quietly until it sees locally generated
traffic and the need to dial its own new link.
One might conceivably start a quiet mode daemon remotely for a
simple kind of traffic driven "dial-back."
.PP
A \f3slip\fP program using demand-dialing can call another \f3slip\fP program
which is in either output or demand-dialing mode.  In case the
other end is also using demand-dialing, demand-dialing uses
random binary exponential backoffs after failed attempts to call.
.PP
The 
.B \-P
argument can either clear or augment the list of ports
not counted as activity.
If the string following "\-P" is a single dash (\-), the list of
ports is cleared.
Otherwise, the program tries to interpret the string as the name
of a TCP port, the name of a UDP port, or a number, in that order.
The
.B \-T
argument is similar, except that it is given either a single dash (\-)
or a decimal number to clear or augment the list of ICMP types.
.PP
.B \-A
is used to specify a number of seconds of no activity after
which the link is turned off.
Two numbers separated by a comma can be specified, with the first one
the number of seconds of inactivity while no TCP connections are 
open, and the second the number of seconds while a connection is open.
The lower layers snoop on packets to infer the number of open TCP
connections that go over the link.  This snooping cannot be made entirely
reliable, because the end of the connection may be a distant machine
that forwards only some of its packets through this machine.
The snooping works only when "cslip" protocol is used (see below).
Still, "30,300" can limit many telephone calls for quick, automatic
transactions like email to less than a minute,
without making remote interactive sessions painful.
.PP
If -A is not specified but "quiet" mode is, a value of "30,300" is the
default.
.PP
The 
.B \-r
argument must be used to specify the host name or IP address of the remote
end of the link.
If the 
.B \-l
argument is not used, the \f3slip\fP program assumes the local end of the 
link has the same IP address as the hostname of the machine.
This default is usually appropriate, whether connecting two ethernets
or extending an ethernet to a distant, isolated workstation.
In the latter case, it is best to use a single network number 
and allocate host numbers on that network for remote workstations.
.PP
The 
.B -p
argument selects the variety of SLIP protocol.
The common or standard variety is the default or specified with
.IR std .
A protocol with adds a checksum to the standard variety is specified with
.IR cksum .
A version which compresses TCP/IP to 3 bytes consisting of framing,
checksum and TCP/IP protocol information in addition to user data bytes
is selected with
.IR comp .
A compressing protocol is useful with modems such as the Telebit 
Trailblazer.
.PP
A version which compresses TCP/IP to a varying number of bytes, sometimes
as few as 4 counting framing is selected with
.IR cslip .
This is what is commonly known as "Van Jacobson Compression," described
in RFC\ 1144.
.PP
The standard (\f3-p\f1 \f2std\f1) and "Van Jacobson Compression" (
\f3-p\f1 \f2cslip\f1) protocols do not have extra error detection or correction
facilities.  This makes them inappropriate for NFS in heterogeneous networks, 
because other NFS vendors often use UDP with checksums turned off.
However, because the "comp" and "cksum" protocols include link error
detection, they can be used reliably with NFS.
The low speed communications lines commonly used make NFS slightly hard to use.
.PP
The
.B -u
argument specifies a name in the
.I /etc/uucp/Systems
file for dialing.  
Its default value is the remote machine name.
UUCP hostnames can be at most 7 or sometimes 8 characters long.
It is useful to use one name for dialing and another for TCP/IP when the
more public, harder to change TCP/IP name is long.
.PP
The
.B \-d
flag requests additional debugging information.
Additional instances of \-d produce more information.
The debugging information is sent to the system log,
\f2/var/adm/SYSLOG\f1,
if its standard error file descriptor is not a tty.
The signals SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 increase and decrease,
respectively, the amount of debugging information.
.PP
Avoid increasing the debugging level to more than 1, because
entire packets will be logged, including those containing
PPP PAP usernames and passwords, which can let anyone who
can read the system log discover the passwords.
.PP
Another reason to avoid increasing the debugging level to more
than 1 is that turns on messages from the IRIX kernel.
While the kernel is displaying the message, it has all interrupts
turned off, which can cause input to be lost, which often causes
more messages from the kernel, and so on.
.PP
The
.B \-c
flag tells the program to "camp" on the telephone, 
to redial the remote machine whenever the link is broken.
It can only be used in the "output" mode.
It is not needed in "quiet" mode..
The \f3slip\fP program must be killed to finally terminate a link that is 
"camping" or in "quiet" mode (see
\f3kill\fP(1) or \f3killall\fP(1M)).
.PP
The
.B \-R 
or "route" argument can be used to install a default, static route.
When the link is first established and later each time it is restored
when 
.B \-c
is used, the string is given to the \f3route\f1(1M) command.
The command can be "-", in which case "route\ add\ default\ remote"
is assumed.
.PP
The
.BR \-S
argument "pushes" the named STREAMS module below the if_sl STREAMS module.
If there are more than one
.BR -S
arguments, the named modules are pushed in the order they are named.
.PP
The
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-M ,
and
.B \-s
arguments modify default parameters.
The default netmask is the one implied by the IP address.
The default metric is 1.
The default maximum transfer unit, or "MTU" is 512 bytes.
Such a small MTU is less efficient, but reduces latency for interactive
applications.
The MTU can be reduced to 256 bytes.
.PP
The
.BR \-I
option causes the driver to discard all ICMP packets.
This defends a very low speed link against \f3ping\fP packets which can
otherwise saturate the link.  
It is not recommended for links as fast or faster than 9600 bits/second.
.PP
.SS Installation Notes
The program uses the dialing information on each appropriate line of the
.I /etc/uucp/Systems
file until it succeeds.
This can be useful if there is more than one telephone number that
might be used to contact the remote machine.
A \f2/etc/uucp/Systems\fP line like the following works well
to call an IRIS running this SLIP software:
.Ex
rmt Any ACUSLIP 19200 5551234 "" @\\r\\c ogin: mynam ssword: xxx SLIP
.Ee
The last check for "SLIP," output by the \f3slip\fP program by the
remote IRIS just before it starts the IP protocol,
gets past any banners or messages of the day.
It ensures the remote machine is not waiting for an additional password.
The check for "SLIP" may not be appropriate with other brands of computer.
.PP
If the hostname "rmt" appears in the \f2/etc/hosts\fP database,
the following shell script can be used to start the \f3slip\fP program
with the Systems file entry above:
.Ex
#!/bin/sh
exec </dev/null >/dev/null 2>&1
/usr/etc/slip -cp cslip -r rmt $* &
.Ee
.PP
A machine which has no network connection other than SLIP should use a
terminator on its ethernet port, and so act as if it has a valid
although very small local area network.
.PP
Because the \f3slip\fP program can use the UUCP control files, the best way
to install a SLIP connection is to first install a UUCP connection.
So, one first creates appropriate entries in the
.IR /etc/uucp/Dialers ,
.IR /etc/uucp/Devices ,
and
.I /etc/uucp/Systems
files, and then "debugs" the connection with
.I cu \-d remotesystem.
.PP
A server which other machines call to use SLIP should establish separate
"user names" in /etc/passwd (see
\f3passwd\fP(4)),
all using the /usr/etc/remoteslip script
as their "login shell."  The script should be modified to recognize
the remote machine by its "username," and to choose appropriate
parameters with which to execute the \f3slip\fP program.
.PP
Since the \f3slip\fP program configures network interfaces,
it must be executed with UID 0,
and so the password entry on the remote system should use UID 0.
.PP
Routing demons can be used to exchange RIP packets (see
.BR routed (1M)
or
.BR gated (1M))
over the link, as well as advertise the link to the rest of the IP network.
The \-h option to \f3routed\fP can usefully reduce the resulting clutter
of "host-routes."
The \-F option to \f3routed\fP on the machine gatewaying a SLIP link
to an ethernet causes a synthetic "default route" to be sent over the
SLIP link instead of the full routing tables, making the cost of running
RIP over the SLIP link negligible.
.PP
Each time the link is (re)established, the program sends a SIGHUP
signal to the gated and routed daemons, if they are running.
This causes the routing daemons to more quickly notice the (probably)
new network interface and to start advertising adjusted routes.
.PP
One can also use "static routing" with the
.B -R
argument described below or with
.BR route (1M) 
commands in a /etc/init.d/network.local files associated with the
.IR /etc/init.d/network
file.
.PP
The default TCP/IP window on SGI machines is 61440, which makes
data move faster over fast networks such as FDDI.
On slow networks such as PPP or SLIP, both latency and throughput can
often be significantly improved by reducing the window to 4096 or even
2048.  The window can be change by modifying the settings of
tcp_sendspace and tcp_recvspace in \f2/var/sysgen/master.d/bsd\f1, and
then reconfiguring the kernel with \f3autoconfig\fP(1M).
.PP
The network information service (NIS, see \f3ypbind\fP(1M)) is
not often useful over a SLIP link.  It is usually necessary to use
local copies of mail aliases.  However, the Internet domain name server
can be useful, by creating a \f2/usr/etc/resolv.conf\fP  file
(see \f3resolver\fP(4))
similar to the following but with the addresses and domain name
changed appropriately:
.Ex
domain your.dom.ain
hostresorder local bind
nameserver 192.26.61.24
nameserver 192.26.61.21
nameserver 192.26.51.194
.Ee
.PP
It is possible to use NFS over a SLIP link.
It is usually necessary to adjust the mount options for the relatively long
latencies and low bandwidth
(see \f3automount\fP(1M) and \f3fstab\fP(4)).
Timeouts should be set long enough to allow a complete
transaction to pass the link before becoming too late, and having
to be retransmitted.
A plausible value for \f2timeo\fP with default 8KByte block sizes over
a 19.2Kbit/s link is 90, for 9 seconds.
It can be useful to increase the attribute timeouts substantially,
to minutes.
.PP
To synchronize clocks over a SLIP link \f3timed\fP(1M) can be used,
but \f3timeslave\fP(1M) is generally better.
.PP
Once each day at about midnight, if the slip program has been 
running for at least several hours, it logs some statistics
concerning its work for the previous 24 hours.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages complaining "open()/dev/if_sl: No such device or address"
usuallmean that the kernel does not contain the required SLIP STREAMS 
module, if_sl.  Ensure that the SLIP software has been installed on 
the system.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/var/sysgen/master.d/if_sl       'u
/etc/init.d/network	network start-up script
/etc/passwd		
/var/adm/SYSLOG		system log for debugging messages
/usr/etc/remoteslip	incoming configuration script
/etc/uucp/Systems	"modem chat scripts"
/etc/uucp/Dialers	"chat scripts" to control modems
/etc/uucp/Devices	tty port/modem configurations
/var/sysgen/master.d/if_sl	configuration file for kernel module
/var/sysgen/boot/if_sl.o	if_sl kernel module
/etc/hosts		hostname database
/tmp/.slip.*		rendezvous for demand dialing
.br
/dev/tty[dmf]\f2x\f1		tty port attached to modem.
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
automount(1M), cu(1), fstab(4)), ifconfig(1M), icmp(7P), master(4),
passwd(4), ppp(1M), resolver(4), syslog(1M), uucico(1M)
