.\" @(#)spray.8c	1.2 87/08/23 3.2/4.3NFSSRC
.\" @(#)spray.8c	1.2 87/02/10 NFSSRC
.\" @(#)spray.8c 1.1 86/09/25 SMI;
.TH spray 1M
.SH NAME
spray \- spray packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/usr/etc/spray\f1 \f2host\f1 [ \f3\-c\f1 \f2count\f1 ] [ \f3\-d\f1 \c
\f2delay\f1 ] [ \f3\-i\f1 ] [ \f3\-l\f1 \f2length\f1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I spray
sends a one-way stream of packets to \f2host\fP using RPC, and
then reports how many were received by \f2host\fP and
what the transfer rate was.
The hostname can be either a name or an Internet address.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-c " count"
Specifies how many packets to send.
The default value of \f2count\fP is the numbers of packets required
to make the total stream size 100000 bytes.
.TP
.BI \-d " delay"
Specifies how may microseconds to pause between
sending each packet.
The default is 0.
.TP
.BI \-i
Use ICMP echo packets rather than RPC.
Since ICMP automatically
echos, this creates a two way stream.
.TP
.BI \-l " length"
The \f2length\fP parameter is the numbers of bytes in the
ethernet packet that holds the RPC call message.
Since the data
is encoded using XDR,
and XDR only deals with 32 bit quantities,
not all values of \f2length\fP are possible, and
.I spray
rounds up to the nearest possible value.
When \f2length\fP
is greater than 1514, then the RPC call can no longer be
encapsulated in one Ethernet packet, so the \f2length\fP field
no longer has a simple correspondence to Ethernet packet size.
The default value of \f2length\fP
is 86 bytes (the size of the RPC and UDP headers)
.SH SEE ALSO
ping(1M),
sprayd(1M),
icmp(7P).
