.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} syslogd 1M "Silicon Graphics" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
syslogd \- log systems messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/usr/etc/syslogd\f1 [ \f3\-f\f1\f2configfile\f1 ] [ \c
\f3\-m\f1\f2markinterval\f1 ] [ \f3\-p\f1\f2logpipe\f1 ] [ \f3\-d\f1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I syslogd
reads and logs messages into a set of files
described by the configuration file
.IR /etc/syslog.conf .
Each message is one line.
A message can contain a priority code,
marked by a number in angle braces
at the beginning of the line.
Priorities are defined in
.RI < sys/syslog.h >.
.I syslogd
reads from the stream device
.IR /dev/log ,
from an Internet domain socket specified in
.IR /etc/services ,
and from the special device
.I /dev/klog
(to read kernel messages).
.PP
.I syslogd
reads its configuration when it starts up
and whenever it receives a hangup signal.
Lines in the configuration file have a
selector
to determine the message priorities to which the line applies
and an
.IR action .
The
.I action
fields are separated from the selector by one or more tabs.
A maximum of 50 lines can be specified.
It is recommended that
no more than 49 be used, or the \f3LOG_LFMT\fP facility may not
work correctly; this facility is used by \f2login\fP(1), among other
programs.
.PP
Selectors are semicolon separated lists of priority specifiers.
Each priority has a
.I facility
describing the part of the system that generated the message,
a dot,
and a
.I level
indicating the severity of the message.
Symbolic names can be used.
An asterisk (\f3*\f1) selects all facilities,
while \f3debug\f1 selects all levels.
All messages of the specified level or higher (greater severity)
are selected.
More than one facility can be selected, using commas to separate them.
For example:
.Ex
*.emerg;mail,daemon.crit
.Ee
selects all facilities at the
.I emerg
level and the
.I mail
and
.I daemon
facilities at the
.I crit
level.
.PP
Known facilities and levels
recognized by
.I syslogd
are those listed in
.IR syslog (3C)
without the leading \f3LOG_\f1.
The additional facility
\f3mark\f1 logs messages at priority LOG_INFO every
20 minutes
(this interval can be changed with the
.B \-m
flag).
The \f3mark\f1 facility is not enabled by a facility field
containing an asterisk.
The level \f3none\f1 can be used to disable a particular facility.
For example:
.Ex
*.debug;mail.none
.Ee
sends all messages
.I except
mail messages to the selected file.
.PP
The second part of each line describes where the message is to be logged
if this line is selected.
There are five forms:
.IP \(bu 3n
A filename (beginning with a leading slash).
The file is opened in append mode.
.IP \(bu 3n
A hostname preceded by an at sign (\f3@\f1).
Selected messages are forwarded to the
.I syslogd
on the named host.
.IP \(bu 3n
A comma-separated list of users.
Selected messages are written to those users
if they are logged in.
.IP \(bu 3n
An asterisk.
Selected messages are written to all logged-in users.
.IP \(bu 3n
A \f3|\f1, followed immediately by a program name, which is taken
to be all chars after the \f3|\f1 up to the next tab; at least one
action must follow the tab.
The filter is expected to read stdin and write the filtered response to
stdout.
The filter receives the source and message through stdin.
A filter can also access the priority, facility, and hostname via
environmental variables: PRIORITY, FACILITY, and FROM.
The values are
stored as strings defined in
.RI < sys/syslog.h >.
If the filter exits with a non-zero value, the original message is logged,
as well as a message that the filter failed.
The filter has a limited time (currently eight seconds) to process the message.
If the filter exits with status 0 without writing any data, no message is
logged.
The data to be read by the filter is not terminated with a newline, nor
should the data written have a newline appended.
See below for a sample filter.
.PP
Blank lines and lines beginning with \f3#\f1 are ignored.
.PP
For example, the configuration file:
.Ex
.ta +\w'kern.debug'u+2 +\w'|/var/adm/auth.filter	'u+2
kern.debug	|/usr/sbin/klogpp	/var/adm/SYSLOG
kern.debug	|/usr/sbin/klogpp	/dev/console
user,mail,daemon,auth,syslog,lpr.debug	/var/adm/SYSLOG
kern.err	@ginger
*.emerg	*
*.alert	eric,beth
*.alert;auth.warning	ralph
.Ee
filters all kernel messages through \f2klogpp\f1(1M) and writes them to
the system console and into \f2/var/adm/SYSLOG\f1
and logs debug (or higher) level messages
into the file \f2/var/adm/SYSLOG\f1.
Kernel messages of error severity or higher are forwarded
to \f3ginger\f1.
All users are informed of any emergency messages.
The users \f3eric\f1 and \f3beth\f1
are informed of any alert messages.
The user \f3ralph\f1
is informed of any alert message
or any warning message (or higher)
from the authorization system.
.PP
.I syslogd
is started at system initialization from \f2/etc/init.d/sysetup\f1.
Optional site-specific flags belong in \f2/etc/config/syslogd.options\f1.
The flags are:
.TP 17
.BI \-f configfile
Specify an alternate configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-m markinterval
Select the number of minutes between mark messages.
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on debugging.
.I syslogd
runs in the foreground and writes debugging information to stdout.
.TP
.BI \-p logpipe
Use the given name for the device instead of \f2/dev/log\f1.
.PP
.I syslogd
rereads its configuration file when it receives a hangup signal, SIGHUP.
To bring
.I syslogd
down,
send it a terminate signal (for example, \f3killall \-TERM syslogd\f1).
.SH "SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS"
.I syslogd
creates log files in mode 644 which allows general read access.
If the log file
already exists, its permissions are unchanged.
The system administrator may
wish to create separate log files with more restricted permissions
for sensitive information such as LOG_AUTH
messages.
Scripts or
.IR cron (1M)
jobs that roll (that is
save and restart with a new file)
these sensitive log files should ensure that the new log file has
the desired permissions.
.SH "FILTER EXAMPLE"
This example shows how to use the filter mechanism.
To have
.IR ftpd (1M)
messages logged in a different file,
add the following line to \f2/etc/syslog.conf\f1:
.Ex
daemon,auth.debug       |/var/adm/ftpd.filt  /var/adm/ftpd.log
.Ee
The \f2/var/adm/ftpd.filt\f1 file is a shell script:
.Ex
#!/bin/sh
# This filter only accepts ftpd messages
read line
set $line
case "$1" {
    ftpd\e[*)
        echo "$line\ec"
        exit 0
        ;;
}
exit 0
.Ee
.SH "MESSAGE EXAMPLE"
The following is an example line from the \f2/var/adm/SYSLOG\f1 file:
.Ex
Aug 10 10:32:53 6F:sgihost syslogd: restart
.Ee
Each line has several parts.
The date and time of the message are
listed first, followed by a priority and facility code.
Priorities are
listed as 0\-7 and facilities are listed as A\-T.
Reference
.RI < sys/syslog.h >.
The source is the name of the program that generated the message.
Following the source is the message itself.
.SH FILES
.ta 30
.nf
/etc/syslog.conf	default configuration file
/dev/log		device read by \f2syslogd\f1
/dev/klog		the kernel log device
/usr/sbin/klogpp	filter for kernel messages
/etc/config/syslogd.options	command-line flags used at system startup
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
logger(1),
sysmon(1M),
syslog(3C).
