'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)timed.2	6.1 (Berkeley) 5/28/86
.\"
.TH TIMED 1M "May 28, 1986"
.UC 6
.ad
.SH NAME
timed \- time server daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/timed
[
.B \-tdM
] [
.B \-G
netgroup] [
.B \-F
host1 host2 ...]
.br
    [
.B \-n
network ] [
.B \-i
network ] [
.B \-P
param-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Timed
is a time server daemon and is normally invoked
at boot time from the /etc/init.d/network file.
It synchronizes the host's time with the time of other
machines in a local area network running
.IR timed .
These time servers will slow down the clocks of some machines
and speed up the clocks of others to bring them to the average network time.
The average network time is computed from measurements of clock differences
using the ICMP timestamp request message.
.PP
.I Timed
communicates with the
.IR date (1)
command in order to set the date globally.
Adjustments made by the \f1date\fP command are accumulated by
the time daemon with all other adjustments.
This means that \f1timed\fP can automatically adjust the system clock
on an isolated machine, not connected to a network.
The adjustments from the date command change the
.I timetrim
parameter described below.
.PP
The service provided by
.I timed
is based  on a master-slave scheme.  When
.I timed
is started on a machine, it asks the master for the network time
and sets the host's clock to that time.
After that, it accepts synchronization messages periodically sent by
the master and calls
.IR adjtime (2)
to perform the needed corrections on the host's clock.
The master adjusts its own clock by averaging the clocks of all
trusted machines (see below) with its own clock.
If the machine running the master crashes, then the slaves elect
a new master from among slaves running with the
.B \-M
flag.
A
.IR timed
running without the
.BR \-M ,
.BR \-F ,
or
.B -G
flags will remain a slave.
.PP
Note that "master-slave" suggests things to many people that are not true.
A better word than "master" is "moderator."
Unless the clock of the so called master is extremely bad,
the time it distributes to the so called slaves is the median of
all of the slaves.
As long as the so called master can keep time for the few seconds
from when it starts to measure the current time of all of the slaves
until it sends the difference between each slave's clock and the median,
the master's clock is fine.
Bad clocks are treated the same whether they are on the master or a
slave.  Times that are very different from the median are discarded,
and then the median of the remaining times is computed and used.
For that reason, it is practically always wrong to run
.IR timed
without the
.BR \-M
flag.
.PP
.I Timed
logs accumulated corrections in the system log (see
.IR syslogd (1M))
to ease adjusting the local clock.
The clock can be adjusted by changing the
.I timetrim
parameter
using systune(1M) or with the
.IR syssgi (2)
system call.
This parameter is used by the operating system to compensate for
variations among machines.  It can be used to improve
the accuracy of the local clock.
.B \-P param-file
specifies a file in which to save a computed value of the
.I timetrim
parameter.
The active value in the operating system is set to the value found in
the file when the daemon started.
An error message is displayed when the daemon is first started
if the file contains nonsense.
However, a corrected value will be placed in
the file during its normal updates.
A good choice for the file name is \f2/var/adm/timetrim\f1.
.PP
The
.B \-F
flag means only the local machine and the machines
.I host1, host2,
etc., are trusted to have good hardware clocks and to be securely
administered.  Any attempts to change the clocks by other, untrusted
machines are ignored, except to log them in the system log.
The clocks of untrusted machines are not averaged by the master if
the master is the only trusted machine.  Untrusted clocks that are close
to the clock of the master are used
if there is more than one trusted master active.
A master which has been told it is trustworthy will tell untrustworthy
machines which try to be elected master to be quiet, to "squash" them.
.PP
A machine without the
.B \-G
or
.B \-F
flags trusts all other machines as much as it trusts itself.
.PP
The clock of a daemon started with
.B \-F localhost
and without
.B \-G
"free runs." In other words, if the machine does not trust
any other machines, it does not try to adjust its own clock.
.PP
The
.B \-G
flag is used to specify a netgroup (see
.IR netgroup (4))
of trusted machines.
This flag allows central administration of the list of trusted
machines.
Making gateways trusted ties the clocks
in an internet together, because after a network partition is healed,
the trusted gateways will suppress the upstart local master elected
during the partition.
.PP
.I Timed
requests synchronization service from the first master server
located.
If permitted by the
.B \-M
flag, it will provide synchronization service on any attached networks
on which no current master server was detected.
Such a server propagates the time computed by the top-level master.
The
.B \-n
flag, followed by the name of a network which the host is connected to
(see
.IR networks (4)),
overrides the default choice of the
network addresses made by the program.
Each time the
.B \-n
flag appears, that network name is added to a list of valid networks.
All other networks are ignored.
The
.B \-i
flag, followed by the name of a network to which the host is connected
(see
.IR networks (4)),
overrides the default choice of the network addresses made by the program.
Each time the
.B \-i
flag appears, that network name is added to a list of networks to ignore.
All other networks are used by the time daemon.
The
.B \-n
and
.B \-i
flags are meaningless if used together.
.PP
The
.B \-t
flag causes
.I timed
to trace the messages it receives in the file /var/adm/timed.log.
Tracing can be turned on or off by the program
.IR timedc (1M).
Beware that the log file grows very quickly in a large network.
.PP
The
.B \-d
flag is for debugging the daemon.
It causes the program to not put itself into the background.
.PP
.I Timed
checks for a master time server on each network to which
it is connected, except as modified by the
.B \-n
and
.B \-i
options described above.
If it finds masters on more than one network, it chooses one network
on which to be a "slave," and then periodically checks the other
networks to see if the masters there have disappeared.
.PP
The
.IR timeslave (1M)
daemon can be used to inexpensively synchronize the clock on a machine
to the clock on a remote machine.  It does not require any daemons
or special programs on the remote machine.
.PP
One way to synchronize a group of IRIS's is to use timeslave to
synchronize the clock of one machine to a distant standard or a radio
receiver and
.B \-F hostname
to tell its timed daemon to trust only itself.
.PP
Messages printed by the kernel on the system console occur with
interrupts disabled.
This means that the clock stops while they are printing.
A machine with many disk or network hardware problems and consequent
messages cannot keep good time by itself.  Each message typically causes
the clock to lose a dozen milliseconds.  A time daemon can
correct the result, but will compute a bogus timetrim value.
.PP
Messages in the system log about machines that failed to respond
usually indicate machines that crashed or were turned off.
Complaints about machines that failed to respond to initial time
settings are often associated with "multi-homed" machines
that looked for time masters on more than one network and eventually
chose to become a slave on the other network.
.SH WARNING
If two or more time daemons, whether
.IR timed ,
.IR timeslave ,
or NTP, try to adjust the same clock, temporal chaos will result.
If both
.I timed
and
.I timeslave
are run on the same machine, ensure that the
.B \-G
flag is not used but that the
.B \-F
flag is used, so that
.I timed
never attempts to adjust the local clock.
.PP
The protocol is based on UDP/IP broadcasts.  All machines within
the range of a broadcast that are using the TSP protocol must cooperate.
There cannot be more than a single administrative domain using the
.B \-F
or
.B \-G
flags among all machines reached by a broadcast packet.
Failure to follow this rule is usually indicated by complaints concerning
"untrusted" machines in the system log.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/etc/config/timed.options    'u
/var/adm/timed.log		tracing file for timed
/var/adm/SYSLOG	system log
/etc/init.d/network		start-up script
/etc/config/timed.options	optional flags, by default
	"-G\ timelords -P\ /var/adm/timetrim"
/var/adm/timetrim		default file for timetrim accumulation
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chkconfig(1M), date(1), adjtime(2), gettimeofday(2), icmp(4P), timedc(1M),
timeslave(1M), systune(1M)
