'\"macro stdmacro
.TH TIMESLAVE 1M
.UC 4
.SH NAME
timeslave \- 'slave' local clock to a better one
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B timeslave
[ \f2options\f1 ]
.B \-H
.I netmaster
.br
.B timeslave
[ \f2options\f1 ]
.B \-C
.I /dev/ttydXX
.sp
where \f2options\f1 can be any of:
.br
    [\f3\-mdBQY\f1] [\f3\-w \f2icmp-wait\f1] [\f3\-W \f2time-wait\f1]
.br
    [\f3\-t \f2min-trials\f1] [\f3\-T \f2max-trials\f1] [\f3\-r \f2rate\f1]
.br
    [\f3\-p \f2port\f1] [\f3\-D \f2max-drift\f1] [\f3\-i \f2init-drift\f1]
.br
    [\f3\-y \f2year\f1] [\f3\-P \f2param-file\f1] [\f3\-c \f2clock-type\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Timeslave
matches the clock in the local machine to a better clock.  It does this by
speeding up or slowing down the local clock, or if the local clock is
particularly wrong, by changing the date.
When the date is changed, because the difference is too great to
correct smoothly,
.I timeslave
logs the event in the system log.
.PP
.I Timeslave
understands several options:
.TP
.B \-H \f2netmaster\f1
specifies the hostname or Internet address of another machine that has a
better clock or that has, in turn, slaved its clock to a better one.
Either a host must be specified with
.B \-H
or a device must be specified with
.BR \-C ,
but not both.
.TP
.B \-C \f2/dev/ttyXX\f1
specifies the filename of a tty port, such as /dev/ttyd2, with a
Precision Time Standards or Traconex/Multisonics WWV receiver.
.TP
.B \-P \f2param-file\f1
specifies a file in which to save a computed value of the
.I timetrim
parameter.
The active value in the operating system is set to the value found in
the file when the daemon started.
A good choice for the file name is \f2/var/adm/timetrim\f1.
.TP
.B \-c \f2clock-type\f1
specifies the kind of WWV or GPS receiver/clock connected to the
device specified with \f3\-C\f1.
Supported types of clocks are:
.nf
.ta \w'/TRC_WWV	'u  u

TRC_WWV	Traconix
PST_WWV	or Precision Standard Time WWV receiver
TT600	TrueTime model 600 GPS receiver
.fi

The default clock type is PST_WWV.

.PP
It is usually not necessary to use the following options to change
the default values compiled in
.I timeslave:
.TP
.B \-m
causes
.I timeslave
to measure the difference between the local and remote clock (or WWV
receiver), but to not change the local clock.
.TP
.B \-d
increases the 'debugging level,' causing more messages to appear in the
system log. Specifying this option several times increases the amount
of debugging information.
The signals SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 can be used to increase and decrease,
respectively, the current amount of debugging information.
.TP
.B \-B
disables the normal 'backgrounding' of the daemon.
.TP
.B \-q
disables error messages caused by network links that make the
netmaster intermittently unreachable.  This can be useful for
"demand dialing" SLIP links (see
.IR slip (1M)).
.TP
.B \-w  \f2icmp-wait\f1
is the number of seconds before an ICMP timestamp packet is assumed to
have been lost in the network.  The default is 1 second.
.TP
.B \-W  \f2time-wait\f1
is the number of seconds before the remote machine is assumed to be not
answering time service requests.  The first time the remote machine fails
to answer a time service request is logged in the system log.  Additional
failures are also logged if debugging is requested.  The default is 4 seconds.
.TP
.B \-t  \f2min-trials\f1
specifies the minimum number of ICMP packets to use to determine
the time difference.  The default value is calculated as follows:
min-trials=4 if the default value of max-trials is used, otherwise
min-trials=max-trials/4.
.TP
.B \-T  \f2max-trials\f1
specifies the maximum number of ICMP packets to use to determine
the time difference.  If the remote machine does not respond to this many
requests, it is assumed to be temporarily dead.  The default value is 
calculated as follows: max-trials=16 if the default value of min-trials
is used, otherwise max-trials=min-trials*4.
.TP
.B \-r  \f2rate\f1
specifies the approximate number of seconds between measurements.
The separation between measurements must be at least 5 seconds.
Shorter periods do not allow enough time to
correct the local clock.  The default is 3 minutes and 30 seconds.
A period of 90 seconds is always used when first starting to start
the filters.
Very long periods do not allow provide enough data to avoid over correction.
The time between one measurement and the next is changed slightly each time
to avoid systematic errors caused by other activity in the machines or
the network in general.  For example,
.I cron
starts a request in the first few seconds of a minute.
.TP
.B \-p  \f2port\f1
is the port number on which the other machine provides Internet time service,
as describe in RFC-868.  The default port comes from the "time" udp service 
defined in /etc/services.
.TP
.B \-D  \f2max-drift\f1
specifies the maximum rate at which the local and remote clocks can be
expected to drift, in nanoseconds per second.  This is used to discard bad
measurements.
Its default value is 1% or 10,000,000 nanoseconds per second.
.TP
.B \-i \f2init-drift\f1
specifies an initial value of the drift of the local clock in nanoseconds
per second.
This value can be used to make
.I timeslave
better behaved when it is first started.  The default is 0 drift.
.TP
.B \-y \f2year\f1
specifies a year, overriding the value obtained from the WWV receiver
or the remote system.
This parameter is handy when \f3\-C\f1 is used and the switch settings
to change the year in the WWV receiver are forgotten,
or when \f3\-H\f1 is used and the netmaster is confused about the year.
The year is automatically adjusted at midnight, January 1.
.TP
.B \-Y\f1
specifies that the year should be consistent with the modification
date of the file specified with \f3\-P\f1.
.PP
.I Timeslave
consumes less network bandwidth, fewer CPU cycles and less memory on
both the local and remote machines than
.IR timed (1M).
.I Timed
is appropriate for a group of peers which average their equivalently accurate
clocks to find a better estimate of the correct time.
Because the master of the network time is elected by the
.I timed
participants, more correct time can be maintained despite the failure of
individual systems.
.PP
A small, homogeneous group of machines should use
.I timed,
rather than
.I timeslave.
In a large network, one should use a small group of trusted, well-administered
machines running
.I timed
with the
.B \-F
or
.B \-G
option to exclude other machines.  The excluded machines should run
.I timed
with only the
.B \-M
flag.  One of the trusted machines should, if possible, be slaved with
.I timeslave
to a WWV receiver, or some remote machine with a very accurate clock.
This machine should be lightly loaded, and should use the
.B \-F
option with
.I timed
to make itself the most trusted time keeper in the local network.
This scheme, a ``king'' with a circle of trusted substitutes surrounded by
a larger number of machines should be replicated on each subnetwork in
an installation, building a hierarchy of domains.  The local king can use
.I timeslave
to synchronize its clock to very remote
machines over low-performance, wide-area networks such as the DARPA Internet.
.PP
A subnetwork consisting of two or more sub-subnetworks, such as a group
of ethernets, can be synchronized in a similar fashion.
The king of the subnetwork would be synchronized with
.I timeslave
to a remote network or a WWV receiver (see below).
The circle of trusted substitutes would be the gateways to the other
sub-subnetworks.
.PP
.I Timeslave
operates in one of two modes.  In the first, it
matches the clock in the local machine to the clock in some other machine.
It sends UDP datagrams to the 'time' service on the other machine to determine
the current day.  The time service on machines using 4.3BSD-style networking is
provided by the
.IR inetd(1M)
daemon.  This allows
.I timeslave
to determine the correct day.
.I Timeslave
then uses ICMP timestamp packets to measure difference between the local
and remote clocks in milliseconds.  It assumes that the round trip delay
for packets to and from the remote machine is symmetric.  This is usually
a valid assumption.  However, large network data transfers can make
transmission delays tens of thousands of times larger or smaller
than reception delays.  Therefore,
.I timeslave
elaborately averages its measurements.  In addition, it
lowers its scheduling priority to minimize the effects of other programs
on the local machine.
.PP
The second mode in which
.I timeslave
can operate is with a Precision Time Standards
or Traconex/Multisonics WWV receiver.
In this case, it still must average its measurements to compensate for variable
delays due to the operating system.
When using a clock, it is best to minimize any latencies in the
serial line connected to the clock, by adjusting the relevant parameters
for the driver.  See
.IR cdsio (1M)
and
.IR sduart (1M).
The switches in the receiver should be configured to use "eight bits
without parity," a "baud rate" of 9600, and daylight-saving time disabled.
.PP
.I Timeslave
logs accumulated corrections in the system log (see
.IR syslogd (1M)
to ease adjusting the local clock.
The clock can be adjusted by changing the
.I timetrim
parameter
using systune(1M).
This parameter is used by the operating system to compensate for
variations among machines.  It can be used to improve
the accuracy of the local clock.
.PP
.I Timeslave immediately
replaces the kernel value of the
.I timetrim
parameter
with the contents of
the file specified with the \f3\-P\f1 option, and after measuring
for several hours, chooses a better value.  The value is continually
refined.
Besides logging in the system the value,
.I timeslave
periodically writes the value to the file specified with \f3\-P\f1.
An error message is displayed when the daemon is first started
if the file contains nonsense.
However, a corrected value will be placed in
the file during its normal updates.
.PP
Messages printed by the kernel on the system console occur with
interrupts disabled.
This means that the clock stops while they are printing.
A machine with many disk or network hardware problems and consequent
messages cannot keep good time by itself.  Each message typically causes
the clock to lose a dozen milliseconds.  A time daemon can
correct the result, but will compute a bogus timetrim value.
.SH WARNING
Temporal chaos results if two or more time daemons,
whether \f2timed\fP, \f2timeslave\fP, or NTP,
try to adjust the same clock.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/etc/config/timeslave.options     'u
/var/adm/SYSLOG			system log
/etc/init.d/network		start-up script
/etc/config/timeslave.options	optional configuration flags
.br
/dev/ttyd\f2XX\f1		tty port attached to clock.
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
chkconfig(1M), inetd(1M), syslog(1M), timed(1M), timedc(1M),
icmp(7P), systune(1M)
.SH BUGS
The filtering is not good enough when the local clock is worse than
one part in 10**4 or the network is overloaded.
.sp
.I Timeslave
does not communicate its confidence in the time to a
.I timed
running on the local machine.
