'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"	Header: traceroute.8,v 1.1 89/02/28 20:46:12 van Exp
.\"
.TH TRACEROUTE 1M BSD "Silicon Graphics, Inc."
.SH NAME
traceroute \- print the route packets take to a network host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/traceroute
[
.B \-g
addr
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-m
max_ttl
]
.br
.in +5
[
.B \-M
min_ttl
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-p
port
] [
.B \-q
nqueries
]
.br
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-s
src_addr
] [
.B \-t
tos
] [
.B \-w
waittime
]
.br
.I host
[
.I datalen
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Internet is a large and complex aggregation of
network hardware, connected by gateways.
Tracking the route your packets follow (or finding the miscreant
gateway that's discarding your packets) can be difficult.
.I traceroute
utilizes the IP protocol ``time-to-live'' (TTL) field and attempts to elicit an
.SM ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED
response from each gateway along the path to some
host.
.PP
The only mandatory parameter is the destination host name or IP address.
The default probe datagram length is 40 bytes, but this may be increased
by specifying the additional length (in bytes) after the destination host
name.
.PP
The options are:
.TP 5
.B \-g
Enable the IP LSRR (Loose Source Record Route) option in addition to the
TTL tests.
This is useful for asking how somebody else, at
.IR addr ,
(either an IP address or a hostname) reaches a particular target.
.TP
.B \-l
Print the value of the TTL field in each received packet (this can be used
to help detect asymmetric routing).
.TP
.B \-m
Set the maximum time-to-live (maximum number of hops) used in outgoing probe
packets.
The default is 30 hops or the minimum TTL plus 1, whichever is larger.
.TP
.B \-M
Set the minimum time-to-live used in outgoing probe packets.
The default is 1 hop.
.TP
.B \-n
Print hop addresses numerically rather than symbolically and numerically
(saves a nameserver address-to-name lookup for each gateway found on the
path).
.TP
.B \-p
Set the base UDP port number used in probes (default is 33434).
.I traceroute
hopes that nothing is listening on UDP ports
.I base
to
.I base+nhops\-1
at the destination host (so an
.SM ICMP PORT_UNREACHABLE
message will
be returned to terminate the route tracing).  If something is
listening on a port in the default range, this option can be used
to pick an unused port range.
.TP
.B \-q
Set the number of probe packets to send. The default is 3 packets.
.TP
.B \-r
Bypass the normal routing tables and send directly to a host on an attached
network.
If the host is not on a directly attached network,
an error is returned.
This option can be used to ping a local host through an interface
that has no route through it (for example, after the interface was dropped by
.IR routed (1M)).
.TP
.B \-s
Use the following IP address (which must be given as a number, not
a hostname) as the source address in outgoing probe packets.  On
hosts with more than one IP address, this option can be used to
force the source address to be something other than the IP address
of the interface the probe packet is sent on.  If the IP address
is not one of this machine's interface addresses, an error is
returned and nothing is sent.
.TP
.B \-t
Set the
.I type-of-service
(TOS) in probe packets to the following value (default zero).  The value must
be a decimal integer in the range 0 to 255.  This option can be used to
see if different types-of-service result in different paths.
.\" (If you
.\" are not running 4.4bsd, this description may be academic since the normal
.\" network services like telnet and ftp don't let you control the TOS).
Not all values of TOS are legal or
meaningful: see the IP RFC for definitions.  Useful values are
probably
.BR \-t " 16"
(low delay) and
.BR \-t " 8"
(high throughput).
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output.  Received
.SM ICMP
packets other than
.SM TIME_EXCEEDED
and
.SM PORT_UNREACHABLE\c
s are listed.
.TP
.B \-w
Set the time (in seconds) to wait for a response to a probe (default is 3
seconds).
.PP
This program attempts to trace the route an IP packet would follow to some
Internet host by launching UDP probe
packets with a small TTL then, listening for an
.SM ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED
reply from a gateway.  The probes begin
with a TTL of one and increase by one until an
.SM ICMP PORT_UNREACHABLE
message is received, which means we got to ``host'' or hit the
maximum (which defaults to 30 hops but can be changed with the
.B \-m
flag).
Three probes (changed with
.B \-q
flag) are sent at each TTL setting and a
line is printed showing the TTL, address of the gateway and
round trip time of each probe.  If the probe answers come from
different gateways, the address of each responding system will
be printed.  If there is no response within a 3-second timeout
interval (changed with the
.B \-w
flag), a ``*'' is printed for that probe.
.PP
So that the destination host will not process the UDP probe packets,
the destination port is set to an
unlikely value.  If someone on the destination is using that
value, it can be changed with the
.B \-p
flag.
.PP
A sample use and output might be:
.Ex
.in -2
% traceroute nis.nsf.net.
traceroute to nis.nsf.net (35.1.1.48), 30 hops max, 56 byte packet
 1  helios.ee.lbl.gov (128.3.112.1)  19 ms  19 ms  0 ms
 2  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  39 ms  19 ms
 3  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  39 ms  19 ms
 4  ccngw-ner-cc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.136.23)  39 ms  40 ms  39 ms
 5  ccn-nerif22.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.168.22)  39 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 6  128.32.197.4 (128.32.197.4)  40 ms  59 ms  59 ms
 7  131.119.2.5 (131.119.2.5)  59 ms  59 ms  59 ms
 8  129.140.70.13 (129.140.70.13)  99 ms  99 ms  80 ms
 9  129.140.71.6 (129.140.71.6)  139 ms  239 ms  319 ms
10  129.140.81.7 (129.140.81.7)  220 ms  199 ms  199 ms
11  nic.merit.edu (35.1.1.48)  239 ms  239 ms  239 ms
.Ee
Notice that lines 2 and 3 are the same because of a buggy
kernel on the second hop system \- lbl-csam.arpa \- that forwards
packets with a zero TTL (a bug in the distributed version
of 4.3BSD).  You have to guess what path
the packets are taking cross-country since the NSFNet (129.140)
doesn't supply address-to-name translations for its NSSes.
.PP
A more interesting example is:
.Ex
.in -2
% traceroute allspice.lcs.mit.edu.
traceroute to allspice.lcs.mit.edu (18.26.0.115), 30 hops max
 1  helios.ee.lbl.gov (128.3.112.1)  0 ms  0 ms  0 ms
 2  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  19 ms  19 ms  19 ms
 3  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  19 ms  19 ms
 4  ccngw-ner-cc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.136.23)  19 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 5  ccn-nerif22.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.168.22)  20 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 6  128.32.197.4 (128.32.197.4)  59 ms  119 ms  39 ms
 7  131.119.2.5 (131.119.2.5)  59 ms  59 ms  39 ms
 8  129.140.70.13 (129.140.70.13)  80 ms  79 ms  99 ms
 9  129.140.71.6 (129.140.71.6)  139 ms  139 ms  159 ms
10  129.140.81.7 (129.140.81.7)  199 ms  180 ms  300 ms
11  129.140.72.17 (129.140.72.17)  300 ms  239 ms  239 ms
12  * * *
13  128.121.54.72 (128.121.54.72)  259 ms  499 ms  279 ms
14  * * *
15  * * *
16  * * *
17  * * *
18  ALLSPICE.LCS.MIT.EDU (18.26.0.115)  339 ms  279 ms  279 ms
.Ee
Notice that the gateways 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17 hops away
either don't send
.SM ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED
messages or send them
with a TTL too small to reach us.  14 \- 17 are running the
MIT C Gateway code that doesn't send \f7TIME_EXCEEDED\f1s.
.PP
The silent gateway 12 in the above example may be the result of a bug in
the 4.[23]BSD network code (and its derivatives):  4.x (x <= 3)
sends an unreachable message using whatever TTL remains in the
original datagram.  Since, for gateways, the remaining TTL is
zero, the
.SM ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED
is guaranteed to not make it back
to us.  The behavior of this bug is slightly more interesting
when it appears on the destination system:
.Ex
.in -2
% traceroute rip.berkeley.edu
 1  helios.ee.lbl.gov (128.3.112.1)  0 ms  0 ms  0 ms
 2  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  19 ms  39 ms
 3  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  19 ms  39 ms  19 ms
 4  ccngw-ner-cc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.136.23)  39 ms  40 ms  19 ms
 5  ccn-nerif35.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.168.35)  39 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 6  csgw.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.133.254)  39 ms  59 ms  39 ms
 7  * * *
 8  * * *
 9  * * *
10  * * *
11  * * *
12  * * *
13  rip.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.131.22)  59 ms !  39 ms !  39 ms !
.Ee
Notice of the 12 ``gateways'' (13 is the final destination), exactly the
half of them are ``missing''.  In this example, rip, a Sun-3 running Sun OS3.5,
is using the TTL from the arriving datagram as the TTL in its
.SM ICMP
reply.  The reply will then time out on the return path,
with no notice sent to anyone since
.SM ICMP
packets aren't sent for
.SM ICMP
packets, until we probe with a TTL that's at least twice the path
length \- that is, rip is really only 7 hops away.  A reply that
returns with a TTL of 1 is a clue this problem exists.
Traceroute prints a ``!'' after the time if the TTL is <= 1.
Since some vendors ship obsolete or nonstandard software, expect to see this
problem frequently and/or take care selecting the target host of your probes.
.PP
Other possible annotations after the time are
.BR !H ,
.BR !N ,
.B !P
(got a host, network or protocol unreachable, respectively),
.B !S
or
.B !F
(source route failed or fragmentation needed \- neither of these should
ever occur, and the associated gateway is broken if you see one).  If
almost all the probes result in some kind of unreachable,
.I traceroute
will give up and exit.
.PP
.B (ttl=n!)
indicates that the TTL value in the
.SM ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED
packet that
we received was "unexpected".
What we expect is that the value will be (some initial value \- the number
of routers between us).
In other words, if the path from hop 5 to us is the same as the path from
us to hop 5, we expect to receive a TTL value of (some initial value \- 4).
Unfortunately, there are several common "initial value"s for
.SM ICMP
TTLs.
The most common are 255, 60, 59, 30, 29.
(IRIX, 4.3BSD-tahoe and cisco routers use 255,
Proteon routers use either 59 or 29
depending on software release, several other implementations use 60 and 30.)
Traceroute checks against all of
these, making it hard to detect some "off by one" routing asymmetries.
If you want to see all the TTL values in all the packets, use the
.B \-l
option.
.PP
For example,
.Ex
% traceroute \-g 10.3.0.5 128.182.0.0
.Ee
will show the path from the Cambridge Mailbridge to PSC while
.Ex
% traceroute \-g 192.5.146.4 \-g 10.3.0.5 35.0.0.0
.Ee
shows how the Cambridge Mailbrige reaches Merit,
by using PSC to reach the Mailbridge.
.PP
This program is intended for use in network testing, measurement,
and management.  It should be used primarily for manual fault isolation.
It is unwise to use \f2traceroute\f1 during normal operations or from
automated scripts due to the load it could impose on the network.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Van Jacobson, Steve Deering, C. Philip Wood, Tim Seaver, and Ken Adelman.
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
netstat(1), ping(1M)
