'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3w.wstring @(#)wstring	41.4 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} wstring 3W "" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} wstring 3W ""
.if \nX=2 .ds x} wstring 3W "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} wstring "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=9 .ds x} wstring 3W "SVR4 MNLS" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4wstring: wssize, wstok, strtows\fP \-  \f4wchar_t\fP
string operations and type transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft 4
#include <widec.h>
.sp .5
int wssize(wchar_t \(**\f2s\fP\^);
.sp .5
wchar_t \(**wstok(wchar_t \(**\f2s1\fP\^, wchar_t \(**\f2s2\fP\^);
.sp .5
wchar_t \(**strtows(wchar_t \(**\f2s1\fP\^, char \(**\f2s2\fP\^);
.ft 1
.SH DESCRIPTION (International Functions)
The arguments \f2s1\fP, \f2s2\fP, and \f2s\fP
point to \f4wchar_t\fP strings (that is, arrays of
\f4wchar_t\fP characters terminated by a \f4wchar_t\fP null character).
.P
\f4wssize\f1 returns the number of
\f4wchar_t\fP characters in \f2s\fP, not including
the terminating \f4wchar_t\fP null character.
.P
\f4wstok\f1 treats the \f4wchar_t\fP
string \f2s1\fP as a sequence of
zero or more text tokens,
separated by spans of one or more
\f4wchar_t\fP characters from the separator
\f4wchar_t\fP string \f2s2\fP.
The first call (with the pointer \f2s1\fP specified)
returns a pointer to the
first \f4wchar_t\fP character of the first token,
and writes a \f4wchar_t\fP null character into \f2s1\fP
immediately following the returned token.
The function keeps track of its position in the
\f4wchar_t\fP string between separate calls,
so that subsequent calls
(which must be made with the first argument a null pointer) will
progress through the \f4wchar_t\fP string \f2s1\fP immediately
following that token.
Similarly, subsequent calls will progress through the \f4wchar_t\fP
string \f2s1\fP until no tokens remain.
The \f4wchar_t\fP separator
string \f2s2\fP may be different from call to call.
A null pointer is returned
when no token remains in \f2s1\fP.
.P
\f4strtows\f1 transforms \s-1EUC\s+1
in character string \f2s2\fP into \f4wchar_t\fP
characters, and transfers those to \f4wchar_t\fP string \f2s1\fP,
stopping after the null character has been processed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
\f4malloc\fP(3C),
\f4widec\fP(3S),
\f4wcstring\fP(3S),
\f4malloc\fP(3X).
.ad
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On success, \f4strtows\fP returns \f2s1\fP.
If an illegal byte sequence is detected, a null pointer is
returned and \f4errno\fP is set to \f4\s-1EILSEQ\s+1\f1.
