.TH KCONS 1 "Annex box (ktools) Commands" 	
.SH NAME
kcons, kgrab \- Annex Box connection commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kcons 
[ -lock ] [ -cu ] machine [ cpu # ]
.PP
.B kgrab
[ -lock ] [ -cu ] [ -nodbg ] machine
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I kcons
connects to the indicated machine's console port via
.B telnet, 
if not in use.

.I kgrab
does the same thing as 
.B kcons
but forks off an 
.B xwsh
that holds the telnet session.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -lock
will lock the port so that it cannot be stolen (see 
.BR ksteal ) 
from you.

.PD 0
.TP 
.B -cu
will direct 
.B kcons 
and 
.B kgrab
to use 
.B cu
instead of
.B telnet 
to open the connection.  The system must be configured to allow cu connections, see
.I portsfile(8)
for configuration information.  By default, 
.B telnet 
will be used, since that is the only way to talk to the annex boxes.  However, 
.B cu 
has several features that telnet does not, most notably the capability to download
files to the port.

.PD 0
.TP
.B -nodbg 
will tell 
.B kgrab
to not bring up any of the 
.I debug
windows for the indicated host.  Debug ports are the second serial port on a CPU,
and are most commonly used for kernel debugging via 
.I kdbx(1).
Most of the systems do not have debug connections.

.SH CUSTOMIZATION
The file
.I $HOME/.kgrabrc
can contain a list of customizations for 
.B kgrab.
These include:


.PD 0
.TP
.BI con X _geom= string
Where 
.I X
is a console specification from 1 to 8, and 
.I string
is a geometry string to pass to 
.B xwsh.

.PD 0
.TP
.BI dbg X _geom= string
Where 
.I X
is a debug console specification from 1 to 8, and 
.I string
is a geometry string to pass to 
.B xwsh.

.PD 0
.TP
.BI CMD= string
.I string
indicates the command to start the xwsh. e.g., 

.Ex 8
CMD=/usr/sbin/xwsh -geometry 80x40+525+330 -max 132x66\\
-fn '-*-courier-bold-r-normal--20-*-100-100-*-*-*-*'\\
-icontitle 'annex' -fg 215 -bg 96 -selbg 3 -selfg 0\\
-cursorbg 91 -cursorfg 0 -bold 3 &

.Ee
.PD 0
.TP
.BI fg= color
.I color
indicates the foreground color for xwsh.

.PD 0
.TP
.BI bg= color
.I color
indicates the background color for xwsh.

.PD 0
.TP
.BI nodebug= X
.I X
is either 0 or 1, indicating debug windows (0) or not (1).

.PD 0
.TP
.BI openiconic= X
.I X
is either 0 or 1, indicating whether to open windows normally (0) or 
iconified (1).


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/annex/portsfile
Specifies the annex boxes to contact, hardware configurations, 
and notes of the systems.
.PP
.TP
.I $HOME/.kgrabrc
 User configuration file for kgrab.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
kwho(1),
kfree(1),
klist(1),
kreset(1),
ksteal(1),
annex-intro(1)

.SH NOTES
.B kcons, kgrab, ksteal, 
and 
.B kreset
invoke 
.B kwho
to determine the status of the system before proceeding with the
desired action.

.SH AUTHOR
Original version by Curtis Anderson, re-written several times by Chan Wilson.

.SH BUGS
.B kwho
attempts to contact all of the annex boxes listed in 
.I /usr/annex/portsfile.
 If it cannot contact an Annex box (either due to network problems or a dead Annex), 
it will wait for an inordinate amount of time before continuing.  This is due to
the large timeout on the 
.I connect
system call.
