.TH KRESET 1 "Annex box (ktools) Commands" 	
.SH NAME
kreset - reset a system that you have a connection to.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kreset 
[ -f | -noyp | -power | -nmi | -off | -on ] machine

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I kreset
will reset the system indicated if you have a connection to it.  Use
.BR kcons \ or\  kgrab
to establish a connection.

.PP
Invoking 
.B kreset
has the same effect as pushing the reset button on the machine.  This is very
useful from time to time.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -f
forceably reset the system, even if you don't have a console connection 
to it.

.TP
.B -noyp
Don't look at the NIS (yp) ktools map, use the file 
.I  /usr/annex/ktools.map
instead.

.TP
.B -power
Power cycle the system, if supported (Challenge L/XL, Origin Systems)

.TP
.B -nmi
Send an NMI to the system, if possible (Challenge L/XL, Origin Systems)

.TP
.B -off
Attempt to turn the system off (X10 controlled machines, Origin Systems)

.TP
.B -on
Attempt to turn the system on (X10 controlled machines, Origin Systems)

.SH NOTES
Resetting a machine is accomplished in a variety of ways, depending on the
system type, console connections, and optional reset connections.

For Challenge L, XL, and Origin 2000 systems, resetting is done through
the
.I System Controller.
This requires a seperate tty connection to the system controller port.

For systems without a system controller -- Iris 4D series, the Indigo 
and Indigo2 families, and Indy, Challenge S, O2 systems -- resetting 
can be accomplished by controlling the reset lines.  This is usually 
accomplished by X10 relay boxes, or a relay board that fits into a
VME slot in an SGI system.  More details can be found in the SGI FAQ,
specifically
.B http://infohub.engr.sgi.com/FAQ/faq.sgi/remotelab.resetting.html

.SH FILES
.I /usr/annex/portsfile
\- to determine the annex boxes to contact, hardware configuration
and notes of the systems.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
kwho(1),
kfree(1),
klist(1),
kcons(1),
kgrab(1),
ksteal(1),
annex-intro(1)

.SH NOTES
Not all the machines connected to the annex boxes have reset connections

.PP
.B kcons, kgrab, ksteal, 
and 
.B kreset
invoke 
.B kwho
to determine the status of the system before proceeding with the
desired action.

.SH AUTHOR
Chan Wilson, cwilson@sgi.com


