.TH KWHO 1 "Annex box (ktools) Commands" 	
.SH NAME
kwho, kfree, klist \- Annex Box status commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kwho
[ machine ]
.PP
.B kfree
.PP
.B klist

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I kwho
contacts the annex boxes listed in 
.I /usr/annex/portsfile
and retrieves a list of which users have connections to systems.
.PP
.B kwho
lists the system name, connected host, the user who is using the system, 
the connect time for the connection, and the idle time for the connection.
.PP
If a system name is given, 
.B kwho
will only print out information for that system.

.I kfree
lists the systems that are currently unused, giving a short hardware description
of the system plus any notes associated with the system.

.I klist
lists the systems that are hooked up to the annex boxes, giving a short hardware
description of the system plus any notes associated with the system.

.SH FILES
.I /usr/annex/portsfile
\- to determine the annex boxes to contact, hardware configuration
and notes of the systems.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
kcons(1),
kgrab(1),
kreset(1),
ksteal(1),
annex-intro(1)

.SH NOTES
.B kcons, kgrab, ksteal, 
and 
.B kreset
invoke 
.B kwho
to determine the status of the system before proceeding with the
desired action.

.SH AUTHOR
Original version by Curtis Anderson, re-written several times by Chan Wilson.

.SH BUGS
.B kwho
attempts to contact all of the annex boxes listed in 
.I /usr/annex/portsfile.
 If it cannot contact an Annex box (either due to network problems or a dead Annex), 
it will wait for an inordinate amount of time before continuing.  This is due to
the large timeout on the 
.I connect
system call.

