'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3g.fnmatch @(#)fnmatch	40.8 of 7/05/95
.\" Copyright 1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1993, 1994 The Regents of the University of California.
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} fnmatch 3G "Enhanced Programming Library" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} fnmatch 3G "Enhanced Programming Library"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} fnmatch 3G "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} fnmatch "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4fnmatch\f1 \- match filename or pathname
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\f4#include <fnmatch.h>\f1
.sp .6v
\f4int fnmatch (const char \(**pattern, const char \(**string, int flags);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4fnmatch\fP
compares the string specified by the
\f2string\f1
argument against the pattern specified by the
\f2pattern\fP
argument.
.sp
The \f2flags\f1 argument modifies the interpretation of \f2pattern\f1 and
\f2string\f1.  It is the bitwise inclusive OR of zero or more of the flags
defined in the header \f4<fnmatch.h>\fP.  If the FNM_PATHNAME flag is set in
\f2flags\f1, then a slash character in \f2string\f1 will be explicitly
matched by a slash in \f2pattern\f1; it will not be matched by either the
asterick or question-mark special characters, nor by a bracket expression.
If the FNM_PATHNAME flag is not set, the slash character is treated as an 
ordinary character.
.sp
A backslash (`\f4\\\f1') is used as an escape character in pattern strings.
If FNM_NOESCAPE is not set in \f2flags\f1, a backslash character (\f4\\\f1)
in \f2pattern\f1 followed by any other character will match that second 
character in \f2string\f1.  In particular, (\f4\\\\\f1) will match a backslash
in \f2string\f1.  If FNM_NOESCAPE is set, a backslash character will be treated
as an ordinary character.
.sp
If FNM_PERIOD is set in \f2flags\f1, then a leading period in \f2string\f1 will
match a period in \f2pattern\f1.  The location of ''leading'' is indicated by
the value of FNM_PATHNAME.
.sp
.in+.4i
If FNM_PATHNAME is set, a period is ''leading'' if it is the first 
character if \f2string\f1.
.sp
If FNM_PATHNAME is not set, a period is ''leading'' only if it is the 
first character of \f2string\f1.
.in-.4i
.sp
If FNM_PERIOD is not set, then no special restrictions are placed on matching
a period.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If \f2string\f1 matches the pattern specified by \f2pattern\f1, then
\f4fnmatch\fP returns zero.  If there is no match, \f4fnmatch\fP returns 
FNM_NOMATCH, which is defined in the header \f4<fnmatch.h>\fP.  If an error
occurs, \f4fnmatch\fP returns another non-zero value.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
\f4fnmatch\fP has two major uses.  It could be used by an application or
utility that needs to read a directory and apply a pattern against each entry.
The
\f4find\fP
utility is an example of this.  It can also be used by the
\f4pax\fP
utility to process its
\f2pattern\f1
operands, or by applications that need to match strings in a similar manner.
.sp
The name
\f4fnmatch\fP
is intended to imply
\f4filename\fP
match, rather than
\f4pathname\fP
match.  The default action of this function is to match 
filenames, rather than pathnames, since it gives no special significance to the
slash character.  With the FNM_PATHNAME flag,
\f4fnmatch\fP
does match pathnames, but without tilde expansion, parameter expansion,
or special treatment for period at the end of a filename.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
glob(3g), wordexp(3g), \f4<fnmatch.h>\fP.
