'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3g.mkdirp @(#)mkdirp	41.4 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} mkdirp 3G "Enhanced Programming Library" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} mkdirp 3G "Enhanced Programming Library"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} mkdirp 3G "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} mkdirp "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH "NAME"
\f4mkdirp\f1, \f4rmdirp\f1 \- create, remove directories in a path
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\f4cc\f1
[\f2flag\fP \|.\|.\|.] \f2file\fP \|.\|.\|.
\f4\-lgen\f1
[\f2library\fP \|.\|.\|.]
.PP
\f4#include <libgen.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int mkdirp (const char \(**\f2path\fP, mode_t \f2mode\fP);\f1
.PP
\f4int rmdirp (char \(**\f2d\fP, char \(**\f2d1\fP);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4mkdirp\fP creates all the missing directories in the given
\f2path\f1 with the given \f2mode\f1.
[See \f4chmod\fP(2) for the values of \f2mode.\f1]
The protection part of the
.I mode\^
argument is modified by the
process's file creation mask
[see
\f4umask\fP(2)].
.PP
\f4rmdirp\f1 removes directories in path \f2d\f1.
This removal starts at the end of the path
and moves back toward the root as far as possible.
If an error occurs, the remaining path is stored in \f2d1\f1.
\f4rmdirp\f1 returns a 0 only if it is 
able to remove every directory in the path.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp 0.5
.ft 4
.nf
/\(** create scratch directories \(**/
if(mkdirp("/tmp/sub1/sub2/sub3", 0755) =\^= -1) {
	fprintf(stderr, "cannot create directory");
	exit(1);
}
chdir("/tmp/sub1/sub2/sub3");
\&\.
\&\.
\&\.
/\(** cleanup \(**/
chdir("/tmp");
rmdirp("sub1/sub2/sub3");
.fi
.ft 1
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If a needed directory cannot be created,
\f4mkdirp\fP returns \-1 and sets \f4errno\f1
to one of the \f4mkdir\fP\f1 error numbers.
If all the directories are 
created, or existed to begin with, it returns zero.
.SH NOTES
\f4mkdirp\fP uses \f4malloc\fP to allocate 
temporary space for the string.
.PP
\f4rmdirp\f1 returns \-2 if a ``\f4.\fP'' or ``\f4..\fP''
is in the path and \-3 if an 
attempt is made to remove the current directory.
If an error occurs other than one 
of the above, \-1 is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4mkdir\fP(2),
\f4rmdir\fP(2),
\f4umask\fP(2).
