'\"! tbl | mmdoc
'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3g.pathfind @(#)pathfind	41.3 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
'''	ident	"@(#)libgen:doc/pathfind.3G	1.1"
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} pathfind 3G "Enhanced Programming Library" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} pathfind 3G "Enhanced Programming Library"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} pathfind 3G "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} pathfind "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH "NAME"
\f4pathfind\f1 \- search for named file in named directories
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\f4cc\f1
[\f2flag\fP \|.\|.\|.] \f2file\fP \|.\|.\|.
\f4\-lgen\f1
[\f2library\fP \|.\|.\|.]
.PP
\f4#include <libgen.h>\fP
.PP
.nf
\f4char \(**pathfind (const char \(**\f2path\fP, const char \(**\f2name\fP, const char
    \(**\f2mode\fP);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4pathfind\fP searches the directories named in
\f2path\f1 for the file \f2name\f1.
The directories named in
\f2path\f1
are separated by colons.
\f2mode\f1
is a string of option letters chosen from the set
\f4rwxfbcdpugks\f1:
.TS
center;
c l
cf4 l .
Letter	Meaning
_
r	readable
w	writable
x	executable
f	normal file
b	block special
c	character special
d	directory
p	\s-1FIFO\s0 (pipe)
u	set user \s-1ID\s+1 bit
g	set group \s-1ID\s+1 bit
k	sticky bit
s	size nonzero
.TE
Options read, write, and execute are checked relative to the
real (not the effective) user
ID
and group
ID
of the
current process.
.P
If the file \f2name\f1,
with all the characteristics specified by
\f2mode\f1,
is found in any of the directories specified by
\f2path\f1,
then
\f4pathfind\fP
returns a pointer to a string containing the member of
\f2path\f1,
followed by a slash character (\f4/\fP),
followed by
\f2name\f1.
.PP
If
\f2name\f1
begins with a slash,
it is treated as an absolute path name, and
\f2path\f1
is ignored.
.P
An empty
\f2path\f1
member is treated as the current directory.
\f4./\fP is not prepended at the occurrence of the first match;
rather, the unadorned
\f2name\f1
is returned.
.SH EXAMPLES
To find the \f4ls\fP command using the \f4PATH\fP environment variable:
.PP
.RS
.ft 4
pathfind (getenv ("PATH"), "ls", "rx")
.ft 1
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4sh\fP(1), \f4test\fP(1),
\f4access\fP(2), \f4mknod\fP(2), \f4stat\fP(2), \f4getenv\fP(3C)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If no match is found,
\f4pathname\f1
returns a null pointer, \f4((char \(**) 0)\fP.
.SH NOTES
The string pointed to by the returned pointer is stored in a static
area that is reused on subsequent calls to
\f4pathfind\fP.
