'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3g.strccpy @(#)strccpy	41.3 of 5/22/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} strccpy 3G "Enhanced Programming Library" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} strccpy 3G "Enhanced Programming Library"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} strccpy 3G "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} strccpy "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH "NAME"
\f4strccpy\f1: \f4streadd\f1, \f4strcadd\f1, \f4strecpy\f1 \- copy strings, compressing
or expanding escape codes
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\f4cc\f1
[\f2flag\fP \|.\|.\|.] \f2file\fP \|.\|.\|.
\f4\-lgen\f1
[\f2library\fP \|.\|.\|.]
.PP
\f4#include <libgen.h>\f1
.PP
\f4char \(**strccpy (char \(**\f2output\fP, const char \(**\f2input\fP);\f1
.PP
\f4char \(**strcadd (char \(**\f2output\fP, const char \(**\f2input\fP);\f1
.PP
.nf
\f4char \(**strecpy (char \(**\f2output\fP, const char \(**\f2input\fP, const char
    \(**\f2exceptions\fP);\f1
.PP
\f4char \(**streadd (char \(**\f2output\fP, const char \(**\f2input\fP, const char
    \(**\f2exceptions\fP);\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4strccpy\fP
copies the
\f2input\f1
string, up to a null byte, to the
\f2output\f1
string,
compressing the C-language escape sequences (for example, \f4\en\fP, \f4\e001\fP)
to the equivalent character.
A null byte is appended to the output.
The
\f2output\f1
argument must point to a space big enough to accommodate the result.
If it is as big as the space pointed to by
\f2input\f1
it is guaranteed to be big enough.
\f4strccpy\fP
returns the
\f2output\f1
argument.
.PP
\f4strcadd\fP
is identical to \f4strccpy\fP,
except that it returns the pointer to the null byte
that terminates the output.
.PP
\f4strecpy\fP
copies the
\f2input\f1
string, up to a null byte, to the
\f2output\f1
string, expanding non-graphic characters
to their equivalent C-language escape
sequences (for example, \f4\en\fP, \f4\e001\fP).
The
\f2output\f1
argument must point to a space big enough
to accommodate the result; four times the 
space pointed to by
\f2input\f1
is guaranteed to be big enough (each character could become \f4\e\fP and 3 digits).
Characters in the
\f2exceptions\f1
string are not expanded.
The
\f2exceptions\f1
argument may be zero, meaning all non-graphic characters are expanded.
\f4strecpy\fP
returns the 
\f2output\f1 
argument
.PP
\f4streadd\fP
is identical to \f4strecpy\fP, except that it returns the pointer
to the null byte that terminates the output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.ft 4
.nf
/\(** expand all but newline and tab \(**/
strecpy( output, input, "\en\et" );
.sp 0.5
/\(** concatenate and compress several strings \(**/
cp = strcadd( output, input1 );
cp = strcadd( cp, input2 );
cp = strcadd( cp, input3 );
.fi
.ft 1
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\f4string\fP(3C), \f4str\fP(3G)
