# Structures to be checked by irix/lib/libirixpmda/src/Audit
#
# Proforma definition of structs you wish to know about.
#
# These source files have structures that are already gaurded by
# _MIPS_SZPTR and are listed here for reference
#
# kmemread.h
# kaio.h
#
# If there are dependencies in the #include files, make sure the
# order of the #include file names is correct
#
#source file	struct name	#include files
filesys.c	stat		sys/types.h sys/stat.h
filesys.c	statfs		sys/types.h sys/stat.h sys/statfs.h
filesys.c	mntent		stdio.h mntent.h
getblkstats.c	getblkstats	sys/types.h sys/ksa.h
hinv.c		inventory_s	invent.h
hinv.c		utsname		sys/types.h sys/utsname.h
if.c		ifnet		sys/types.h sys/mbuf.h net/if.h
igetstats.c	igetstats	sys/types.h sys/ksa.h
kna.c		kna		sys/types.h sys/sysmp.h netinet/in.h netinet/in_systm.h netinet/ip.h netinet/ip_icmp.h sys/tcpipstats.h
minfo.c		minfo		sys/types.h sys/time.h sys/sysinfo.h
msg.c		msginfo		sys/types.h sys/ipc.h sys/msg.h	
msg.c		msqid_ds	sys/types.h sys/ipc.h sys/msg.h
ncstats.c	ncstats		sys/types.h sys/ksa.h
nfs3.c		clstat		sys/types.h sys/fs/nfs_stat.h
nfs_client.c	clstat		sys/types.h sys/fs/nfs_stat.h
nfs3_client.c	clstat		sys/types.h sys/fs/nfs_stat.h
nfs_server.c	svstat		sys/types.h sys/fs/nfs_stat.h
nfs3_server.c	svstat		sys/types.h sys/fs/nfs_stat.h
rpc_client.c	rcstat		sys/types.h sys/fs/nfs_stat.h
rpc_server.c	rsstat		sys/types.h sys/fs/nfs_stat.h
sem.c		seminfo		sys/types.h sys/ipc.h sys/sem.h
sem.c		semid_ds	sys/types.h sys/ipc.h sys/sem.h
shm.c		shmid_ds	sys/types.h sys/ipc.h sys/shm.h
shm_kmem.c	shmid_ds	sys/types.h sys/ipc.h sys/shm.h
shm_kmem.c	shminfo		sys/types.h sys/ipc.h sys/shm.h
spindle.c	iotime		sys/types.h sys/elog.h
spindle.c	stat		sys/types.h sys/stat.h
spindle.c	dkscinfo	sys/types.h sys/iobuf.h sys/buf.h sys/dvh.h sys/dkio.h sys/scsi.h sys/dksc.h
spindle.c	usraid_softc	sys/types.h sys/usraid.h
spindle.c	usraid_info	sys/types.h sys/usraid.h
swap.c		swaptable	sys/types.h sys/swap.h
syserr.c	syserr		sys/types.h sys/time.h sys/sysinfo.h
sysinfo.c	sysinfo		sys/types.h sys/time.h sys/sysinfo.h
sysinfo_mp.c	sysinfo		sys/types.h sys/time.h sys/sysinfo.h
sysmp.c		rminfo		sys/types.h sys/time.h sys/sysinfo.h
sysmp.c		utmp		utmp.h
var.c		var		sys/var.h
vnodestats.c	vnodestats	sys/types.h sys/ksa.h
xfs.c		xfsstats	sys/types.h sys/ksa.h

