.\" $Revision: 1.2 $
.TH capability 4
.SH NAME
capability \- user capability database
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/capability
describes the default capability set a user may have when logging onto
the system, and the maximum capability set a user may have
when logging onto the system or using the
.IR su (1M)
command. There is one entry for each user. Each entry is separated from
the next by a newline. Each field within each entry is separated by
a colon. An entry beginning with # is ignored.
.LP
The
.I capability
file contains the following information for each user:
.IP name 10
User's login name. This must exactly match the corresponding entry
in
.IR /etc/passwd .
.IP "default capability set" 10
The default capability set a user gets when logging onto the system.
This consists of a capability set in a form acceptable to
.IR cap_from_text (3C) .
.IP "maximum capability set" 10
The maximum capability set a user may specify when logging onto the system,
or when using
.IR su (1M) .
This field has the same form as the
.I default
field. This field should be a superset of the
.I default
field.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Here is a sample
.I /etc/capability
file:
.PP
.Ex
.br
root:all+eip:all+eip
.br
sysadm:all=:all=
.br
cmwlogin:all+eip:all+eip
.br
diag:all=:all=
.br
daemon:all=:all=
.br
bin:all=:all=
.br
uucp:all=:all=
.br
sys:all=:all=
.br
adm:all=:all=
.br
lp:all=:all=
.br
nuucp:all=:all=
.br
auditor:CAP_AUDIT_WRITE,CAP_AUDIT_CONTROL,CAP_KILL+eip:CAP_AUDIT_WRITE,CAP_AUDIT_CONTROL,CAP_KILL+eip
.br
dbadmin:all=:all=
.br
xserver:all=:all=
.br
demos:all=:all=
.br
tutor:all=:all=
.br
guest:all=:all=
.br
jenny:all=:CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH+eip
.br
.Ee
.PP
In this example, there are specific entries for users
.I root
and
.IR auditor ,
to assure that they have non-empty capability sets when logging in,
and that they can acquire all the capabilities they need when
necessary. There is also a specific entry for user
.IR jenny ,
who has an empty capability set by default, but can request
.B CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH
capability when necessary
.SH FILES
/etc/capability
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cap_from_text(3C),
chcap(1),
login(1),
passwd(1),
su(1M).
