'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man4.clearance
.nr x
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CLEARANCE 4 "Mandatory Access Control Files" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} CLEARANCE 4 "Mandatory Access Control Files"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} CLEARANCE 4 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} CLEARANCE "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
clearance \- user clearance label information file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "clearance file"  ""  "\fLclearance\fP \(em user clearance file"
.LP
The
.B /etc/clearance
file contains the following information for each user :
.IP name 10
User's login name \(em contains no upper case characters and must not be
greater than eight characters long.  The name must be unique.
.IP "default security label" 10
It is used as the default label when the user doesn't specify the label
at login time.  If this field doesn't exist the user will be forced
to enter their security label.  This field cannot be a label range.
This label lie within the range of the security clearance label field.
.IP "security clearance label" 10
Security clearance range or range(s) can be defined.
.LP
An entry beginning with # is ignored as a comment.
The clearance file is an
.SM ASCII
character file.  Each field within an entry
is separated from the next field by a colon.  Each user entry is
separated from the next by a new-line.  
.LP
The name field is the key between the the
.IR clearance (4)
and the
.IR passwd (4)
file.  So both files need to have entries to validate users. 
.LP
The default security label field is the label at which the user of the
account will login at if they don't choose a security label when prompted
during the log in process. If the default security label field is null the 
user must then explicitly enter a security label that is valid label in
the security clearance label field before being allowed to log in.  A 
security range is not permitted in the default label field. 
.LP
If the security clearance label field is null, that user will have an 
invalid label.  A user with an invalid label will not be allowed to 
log in.  If any incorrectly formed security label is detected in 
the security clearance label field the whole field is considered 
invalid.  Multiple security clearance(s) can be declared within the 
security clearance field.  The syntax for defining multiple security 
clearance(s) is that a blank space separates the security clearance(s) and 
three (3) periods ("...") defines a security range.  For example, 
"dblow...dbadmin" is a security range with the lowest label on the 
right and the highest label on the left.  A single security clearance 
range can be denoted by using the security label 
"userlow" or "userlow...userlow".  Single label security clearance(s) 
and security clearance range(s) can be mixed.  
.LP
Because of the security label 
information, access to this file is restricted to trusted programs.
.SH EXAMPLES
.ne 5v
.PP
Here is a example
.I /etc/clearance
file :
.sp
.nf
.br
	Betty:adminlabel midlabel...highlabel lowlabel
.br
	Bubba:lowlabel midlabel adminlabel
.br
	Bubbles:lowlabel...midlabel highlabel...adminlabel

Betty is cleared for lowlabel, the label range from midlabel
to highlabel, and adminlabel.  Bubba is cleared for lowlabel,
midlabel and adminlabel only (notice no clearance ranges).
Bubbles is cleared for the security ranges between lowlabel
to midlabel and highlabel to adminlabel.
.sp
.br
	duck:userlow:userlow dblow...dblow
.br
	bill:userlow dblow...dbadmin
.sp
.br
In this example, there are specific entries for users duck
and bill.  Duck has a security default label of "userlow"
which must be a valid label in the clearance field and
has the ability to login with a security label of "dblow".
.br
Note : "dblow...dblow" is equal to "dblow" since a single
security label is really a security range that only spans
one security label.  
The bill account has not specified a default security label
which means that the account bill must explicitly specify
the security label that they wish to login at.
.SH FILES
/etc/clearance
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
a64l(3C) 
.br
crypt(3) 
.br
fgetpwent(3) 
.br
getuserinfoent(3) 
.br
group(4) 
.br
login(1) 
.br
netgroup(4) 
.br
passwd(4) 
