'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)services.4	6.2 (Berkeley) 5/6/86
.\"
.if n .pH man4.services @(#)servicesn	30.3 of 2/1/86
.TH SERVICES 4
.UC 5
.SH NAME
services \- service name database
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B /etc/services
file contains information regarding
the known services available in the 
Internet.
For each service a single line should be present
with the following information:
.RS 3
.IP \(bu 2
official service name
.IP \(bu 2
port number
.IP \(bu 2
protocol name
.IP \(bu 2
aliases (optional)
.RE
.PP
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or
tab characters.  The port number and protocol name
are considered a single 
.IR item ;
a ``/'' is used to
separate the port and protocol (e.g. ``512/tcp'').
A ``#'' indicates the beginning of
a comment; characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines which search the file.
.PP
Service names may contain any printable
character other than a field delimiter, newline,
or comment character.
For example,
.Ex
smtp    25/tcp    mail
.Ee
.SH "DETERMINING USAGE"
It is sometimes useful to be able to determine which processes are using
a particular port.  This can be accomplished using the \f2fuser\f1(1M) command.
For example, in order to see which processes are listening on TCP port 25, the command
.Ex
fuser 25/tcp
.Ee
can be used.  Note that \f2fuser\fP only accepts service names in their
numeric form; symbolic names such as ``smtp'' cannot be used.
.SH FILES
/etc/services
.PP
If the 
.SM NFS
option is installed and NIS is running, 
the \f2getservent\f1(3N) library routines only access this file
if no entry was found in the NIS database.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fuser(1M), getservent(3N)
.SH BUGS
A name server should be used instead of a static file.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
