.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} shadow 4 "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4shadow\f1 \- shadow password file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4/etc/shadow\f1
is an access-restricted ASCII system file.
The fields for each user entry are separated by colons.
Each user is separated from the next by a newline.
Unlike the \f4/etc/passwd\f1 file, \f4/etc/shadow\f1 does
not have general read permission.
To create \f4/etc/shadow\f1
from \f4/etc/passwd\f1 use the \f4pwconv\f1 command (see \f4pwconv\f1(1M)).
.PP
Here are the fields in \f4/etc/shadow\fP:
.TP 12
\f2username\f1
The user's login name (ID).
.TP
\f2password\f1
A 13-character encrypted password for the user, a \f2lock\f1 string
to indicate that the login is not accessible, or no string to show
that there is no password for the login.
.TP
\f2lastchanged\f1
The number of days between January 1, 1970 and the date that the
password was last modified.
.TP
\f2minimum\f1
The minimum number of days required between password changes.
This field is set by \f4passwd -n\fP.
.TP
\f2maximum\f1
The maximum number of days the password is valid.
This field is set by \f4passwd -m\fP.
.TP
\f2warn\f1
The number of days before that password expires that the user is warned.
This field is set by \f4passwd -w\fP.
.TP
\f2inactive\f1
The number of days of inactivity allowed for that user.
This field is set by \f4passmgmt -f days\fP.
.TP
\f2expire\f1
An absolute date when the login can no longer be used, 
specified in \f2days\f1 since the epoch (January 1, 1970).  
This field is set by \f4passmgmt -e when\fP, where the \f4when\fP argument
is used as an input string to \f4getdate\fP(3).  \f4passmgmt\fP converts
this to the days since the epoch value.
.TP
\f2flag\f1
Reserved for future use; set to zero.
Currently not used.
.PP
The encrypted password consists of 13 characters chosen from a 64-character
alphabet
\f1(\f4.\f1, \f4/\f1,
\f40\-9\f1, \f4A\-Z\f1, \f4a\-z\f1).
.PP
To update this file, use the \f4passwd\f1 command.
.PP
One way of determining the number of days since the epoch:
.RS
.sp
% perl -e 'print int(time/(60*60*24))'
.SH FILES
\f4/etc/shadow\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
login(1),
passmgmt(1M),
passwd(1),
pwconv(1M),
getspent(3C),
putspent(3C),
passwd(4).
.SH NOTES
The shadow file can be served through NIS but that should only be done
if the appropriate attributes in \fBnsd\fP are set correctly for that map:
the \fBnis_secure\fP attribute (see \fBnisserv(7)\fP) should be turned
on and the \fBmode\fP attribute (see \fBnsd(1M)\fP) should be set to
0700. Failing to do so introduces a security hole by allowing any user
to view entries from the shadow file.  This map is not built by default
in mdbm_parse.  Ypmake needs to be called with the explicite map name
\fBshadow\fP.  Also a line would need to be added to the servers nsswitch.conf
file to allow serving the shadow map.
