'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man4.uns @(#)uns	30.3 of 17/4/98
.TH UNS 4
.SH NAME
uns \- the Unified Name Service Architecture
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Unified Name Services Architecture is a collection of programs,
libraries, API, and caches that provide a flexible and extensible system
that is transparent to the users of the traditional Unix Service API.  It
allows the administrator to fully control how name service requests are
performed on a system-wide basis.  It provides a high-performance
system-wide cache and associated cache-miss daemon. 
.LP
The system-wide caches are stored in 
.B mdbm(3B) 
format and are located in
.I /var/ns/cache.
There is one cache file per index for each name service map.   Cache files
may be viewed and manipulated via the 
.B nsadmin(1)
command.   All name service requests that are not found in the cache are
then requested via the 
.B nsd(1) 
in memory filesystem
.I /ns.
.B nsd 
will lookup the requested information as configured by the 
.B nsswitch.conf(4)
file.   The result is returned to the requesting program and placed into
the system-wide cache for future requests.   If nsd is not running, the
traditional system configuration files located in 
.I /etc
will be read.
.LP
Name service requests can be configured to use a number of protocols
including 
.B files(7),
.B dns(7),
.B nis(7),
.B ldap(7),
.B mdbm(7),
.B ndbm(7),
and the Berkeley
.B db(7).
In addition, the 
.B nisserv(7)
library acts as a NIS server.
Each of these protocols is implemented in a dynamic library located in
.I /var/ns/lib
which is used by the nsd process.
.LP
The Unified Name Service has added the new C API calls 
.B ns_lookup(3)
and 
.B ns_list(3)
to allow programs to easily access the UNS functionality.  Most of the
traditional name service API functions such as
.B getpwent(3C)
and
.B getgrent(3C)
have been modified to use these new functions.
.LP
More information can be found in the various manual pages referenced above,
as well as in the 
.B Networking and Mail
and 
.B Network Programming
books.
\"  LocalWords:  uns
