.TH DPROF 1
.SH NAME
\f3dprof\f1 \- a memory access profiling tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
dprof [\f3-itimer\f1 [\f3-ms n\f1]] 
[\f3-hwpc\f1 [\f3-cntr\f1 \f2 n\f1] [\f3-ovfl\f1 \f2n\f1]] 
[\f3-pcmin\f1 \f2min\f1] [\f3-pcmax\f1 \f2max\f1] 
[\f3-damin min\f1] [\f3-damax max\f1]
[\f3-page\f1][\f3-hex\f1][\f3-oct\f1][\f3-quad\f1][\f3-double\f1][\f3-int\f1]
[\f3-out\f1 \f2file\f1] [\f3-pout\f1 \f2dplace_file\f1] [\f3-threads_per_mem\f1 \f2n\f1]
[\f3-verbose\f1] \f2command\f1 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The given \f2command\f1 is executed and memory accesses are sampled; after
completion, \f2dprof\f1 prepares a histogram of memory accesses.
Histograms are computed for each thread of multi-threaded applications 
that utilize \f3sproc\f1(2).



.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-itimer\f1
Use the interval timer as a sampling trigger.
.TP
\f3-ms\f1 \f2n\f1
Trigger every \f2n\f1 milliseconds. (default is 100)
.TP 
\f3-hwpc\f1
Use R10000 hardware event counter overflow as a sampling trigger.
.TP 
\f3-cntr\f1 \f2n\f1
Use R10000 hardware event counter \f2n\f1 as the event trigger.
Default is number of cycles; event 0.
.TP 
\f3-ovfl\f1 \f2n\f1
Trigger after \f2n\f1 events have occurred.
Default is 10,000.
.TP 
\f3-pcmin\f1 \f2min\f1
Ignore events that have a program counter smaller than \f2min\f1.
.TP 
\f3-pcmax\f1 \f2max\f1
Ignore events that have a program counter larger than \f2max\f1.
.TP 
\f3-damin\f1 \f2min\f1
Ignore memory operations that have a virtual addresses smaller than \f2min\f1.
.TP 
\f3-damax\f1 \f2max\f1
Ignore memory operations that have a virtual addresses larger than \f2max\f1.
.TP 
\f3-page\f1
Use pagesize (16k bytes) granularity for memory access sampling.
.TP 
\f3-line\f1
Use cache linesize (128 bytes) size granularity for memory access sampling.
.TP 
\f3-hex\f1
Use hex (64 bytes) size granularity for memory access sampling.
.TP
\f3-oct\f1
Use oct (32 bytes) size granularity for memory access sampling.
.TP 
\f3-quad\f1
Use quad (16 bytes) size granularity for memory access sampling.
.TP 
\f3-double\f1
Use double (8 bytes) size granularity for memory access sampling.
.TP 
\f3-int\f1
Use int (4 bytes) size granularity for memory access sampling.
.TP
\f3-sigusr\f1
Sampling is not started until SIGUSR1 is received. Further
SIGUSR1 signals toggle sampling off and on.
.TP 
\f3-out\f1 \f2file\f1
Output is sent to \f2file\f1 rather than standard output.
.TP
\f3-pout\f1 \f2dplace_file\f1
Placement information suitable for \f3dplace\f1(1) is written to \f2dplace_file\f1.
.TP
[\f3-threads_per_mem\f1 \f2n\f1] 
When building \f2dplace_file\f a thread assignment that assumes \f2n\f1
threads per memory is assumed.
.SH EXAMPLE

To collect a memory access histogram from a program called a.out
that would normally be run by
.nf.
   % a.out < in > out 
.fi
and place the resuls in a file called \f2histogram\f1 
one would simply
.nf
   % dprof -out histogram a.out < in > out .
.fi

.SH DEPENDENCIES

\f3dprof\f1 options \f3-hwpc\f1, \f3-cntr\f1 \f2n\f1 and
\f3-ovfl\f1 \f2n\f1 only apply to R10000 based systems.

.SH SEE ALSO

\f3dplace\f1(1), \f3sproc\f1(2), \f3r10k_counters\f1(5)

