'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ECSTATS 1
.SH NAME
\f3ecstats\f1 \- report global event counter activity
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3ecstats\f1
[\f3\-aCDefr\f1]
[\f3\-s\f1 samples]
[interval]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ecstats
may be used on systems with R10000 or R12000 processors to interrogate the
global event counters maintained by IRIX using the underlying
hardware event counter mechanisms.
The global event counters are maintained on a system-wide basis,
aggregated over all processes and for all user and system mode
execution.
.PP
Global event counters are enabled and disabled using the
.BR ecadmin (1)
command.
.PP
The options to 
.I ecstats
are as follows;
.PP
.TP 5
\f3\-a\f1
Report absolute values for the event counters (the complement of
.BR \-r ).
.TP 5
\f3\-C\f1
Enable full-screen and continuous update mode.
Single character keystroke commands have the effect of toggling
the command line options, i.e.
.RS 5
.TP 5
\f3a\f1
change to reporting absolute counter values
.PD 0
.TP 5
\f3e\f1
report only the enabled counters
.TP 5
\f3f\f1
display both enabled and disabled counters
.TP 5
\f3r\f1
change to reporting counter rates
.TP 5
\f3q\f1
exit
.TP 5
\f3^L\f1
redraw the display
.RE
.PD
.TP 5
\f3\-D\f1
Enable some diagnostic output, not useful with
.BR \-C .
.TP 5
\f3\-e\f1
Display only those event counters that have been enabled \- this is the default.
.TP 5
\f3\-f\f1
Display both enabled and disabled event counters (the complement of
.BR \-e ).
.TP 5
\f3\-r\f1
Display event rates \- this is the default.
.TP 5
\f3\-s\f1
Report data for
.I samples
intervals and then exit.  The default is to run forever.
.PP
New information is reported each
.I interval
seconds.  The default is 5 seconds.
.PP
For a particular processor implementation, the number of physical hardware
counters may be smaller than the number of event counters that have
been enabled.
When this occurs, the IRIX kernel multiplexes the physical hardware
counters amongst the enabled event counters, and
.I ecstats
scales up the observed counts to reflect the level of multiplexing.
If this scaling has taken place, the reported counters may be subject to some
statistical sampling errors, and the values are shown with a ``*''
annotation.
.PP
For systems with processors of mixed type (particularly R10000 and R12000)
some events have different semantics on different processor types,
refer to the
.B \-M
and
.B \-T
flags for
.BR ecadmin (1).
If any events in this category are enabled, then the values reported
by
.B ecstats
are shown with a ``?''
annotation.
.SH CAVEAT
The underlying hardware event counters are a finite resource, to be
shared amongst
multiple competing uses.
.B ecstats
is one such use that requires the use of
.BR ecadmin (1)
to enable at least one global event counter.
.PP
Once
.B any
global event counters have been enabled with
.BR ecadmin (1),
then any future attempts to use either
.BR perfex (1)
or the counter-based SpeedShop profiling tools will
be unsuccessful, until
.B all
global event counters are released.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ecadmin (1),
.BR perfex (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.BR speedshop (1)
and
.BR r10k_counters (5).
.PP
The specifications for the R10000 event counters may be found at
http://www.sgi.com/processors/r10k/performance.html
