.TH SN 1
.SH NAME
\f3sn\f1 \- NUMA Memory Management Configuration Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sn [\f3-vsa\f1] [\f3-b\f1 \f2on|off\f1] [\f3-m\f1 \f2on|off|foff\f1]
   [\f3-t\f1 \f2threshold\f1] [\f3-u\f1 \f2on|off\f1] [\f3-p\f1 \f2threshold\f1]
   [\f3-w\f1 \f2interval\f1] [\f3-c\f1 \f2i|q\f1] [\f3-d\f1 \f2i|q\f1]
   [\f3-q\f1 \f2interval\f1] [\f3-r\f1 \f2threshold\f1] [\f3-x\f1 \f2interval\f1]
   [\f3-i\f1 \f2on|off\f1] [\f3-f\f1 \f2factor\f1]
   [\f2node-path\f1]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The current NUMA configuration parameters are set according to
specifications and/or  displayed for the given \f2node-path\f1
or all nodes in the system.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3-v\f1
Show all configuration parameters.
.TP
\f3-s\f1
Silent operation. Just set specified parameters.
.TP
\f3-a\f1
Apply requested operation to all nodes in the system.
.TP
\f3-b\f1 \f2on|off\f1
Turn BTE (Block Transfer Engine) on/off for dynamic migration.
.TP
\f3-m\f1 \f2on|off|foff\f1
Set the default dynamic migration mode; \f2on\f1 sets the default
to migration enabled and users can override the default on a per
address space basis; \f2off\f1 sets the default to migration off
and users can override the default on a per address space
basis; \f2foff\f1 completely disables migration.
.TP
\f3-t\f1 \f2threshold\f1
Set the dynamic migration threshold to \f2threshold\f1. This
\f2threshold\f1  is a percentage of the maximum possible difference
between a local and a remote memory reference counter.
.TP
\f3-u\f1 \f2on|off\f1
Turn the memory reference counter unpegger on/off.
.TP
\f3-p\f1 \f2threshold\f1
Set the pegged level to \f2threshold\f1. This \f2threshold\f1 is a
percentage of the maximum count a memory reference counter can hold.
.TP
\f3-w\f1 \f2interval\f1
Set the unpegger period to \f2interval\f1. This \f2interval\f1 is in
seconds and specifies how often the unpegger should be waken up to check
the memory reference counters in every node, and reset those counters
that have reached a pegged level.
.TP
\f3-c\f1 \f2i|q\f1
Select the mechanism to be used for automatic dynamic memory migration.
The argument  \f2i\f1 selects immediate migration, and the argument
\f2q\f1 selects delayed migration. For delayed migration, several migration
requests are temporarily stored in a queue that is emptied periodically,
or when a certain capacity threshold is reached.
.TP
\f3-d\f1 \f2i|q\f1
Select the mechanism to be used for user requested memory migration.
The argument  \f2i\f1 selects immediate migration, and the argument
\f2q\f1 selects delayed migration. For delayed migration, several migration
requests are temporarily stored in a queue that is emptied periodically,
or when a certain capacity threshold is reached.
.TP
\f3-q\f1 \f2interval\f1
Set the queue control period to \f2interval\f1. This \f2interval\f1 is in seconds
and specifies how often the queue should be checked and aged.
.TP
\f3-r\f1 \f2threshold\f1
Set the migration queue capacity trigger threshold to \f2threshold\f1. This
\f2threshold\f1 is a percentage of the total capacity of the queue.
.TP
\f3-x\f1 \f2interval\f1
Set the migration queue time trigger to \f2interval\f1. This \f2interval\f1 is
in seconds and specifies how often the queue should be migrated.
.TP
\f3-i\f1 \f2on|off\f1
Enable or disable migration dampening.
.TP
\f3-f\f1 \f2factor\f1
Set the migration dampening factor. This factor is a percentage of the
maximum possible dampening factor (4 for Origin 2000 systems).
.P
.SH EXAMPLE

To turn migration off for all nodes:
.nf.
   $ sn -a -m off
.fi
To turn migration on with a threshold of 34%:
.nf
   $ sn -a -m on -t 34
.fi

.P
.SH RESTRICTIONS

Only the superuser or users with the MEMORY_MGT capability are
allowed to use this command to change numa parameters.
.SH SEE ALSO

\f3nstats\f1(1), 
The Memory Management Control Interface User's Manual (Books).

