'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)arp.4p	6.2 (Berkeley) 5/15/86
.\"
.TH ARP 7P 
.SH NAME
arp \- Address Resolution Protocol
.SH DESCRIPTION
ARP is a protocol that provides a dynamic mapping from an IP address
to the corresponding physical network address. The 32-bit IP addresses
only make sense to the TCP/IP protocol suite. A physical network such as an
Ethernet or a token ring has it own addressing scheme (often 48-bit 
addresses) to which any network layer using the physical network must conform.
Two machines on a given physical network can communicate only if they
know each other's physical network address. ARP provides a mapping between
the two different forms of addresses.
.PP
ARP caches IP-physical address mappings.  When an interface
requests a mapping for an address not in the cache, ARP queues the
message which requires the mapping and broadcasts
a message on the associated network requesting the address mapping.
If a response is provided, the new mapping is cached and any pending
message is transmitted.
Each address mapping has a timer associated with it and completed
address mappings are aged after 20 minutes.
The timer is reset each time the address mapping is updated
by a SIOCSARP
.IR ioctl
call or by sending a packet to the IP address to which the
mapping belongs. This timer value is not configurable.
ARP will queue
at most one packet while waiting for a mapping request to be responded to;
only the most recently ``transmitted'' packet is kept.
.PP
To facilitate communications with systems which do not use ARP,
.IR ioctl \^s
are provided to enter and delete entries in the IP-to-physical address tables.
Usage:
.LP
.nf
	#include <sys/ioctl.h>
	#include <sys/socket.h>
	#include <net/if.h>
	struct arpreq arpreq;

	ioctl(s, SIOCSARP, (caddr_t)&arpreq);
	ioctl(s, SIOCGARP, (caddr_t)&arpreq);
	ioctl(s, SIOCDARP, (caddr_t)&arpreq);
.fi
.sp
Each ioctl takes the same structure as an argument.
SIOCSARP sets an ARP entry, SIOCGARP gets an ARP entry, and SIOCDARP
deletes an ARP entry.  These ioctls may be applied to any socket descriptor
.I s,
but only by the super-user.
The
.I arpreq
structure contains:
.LP
.nf
/* ARP ioctl request */
struct arpreq {
	struct sockaddr	arp_pa;		\s-1/* protocol address */\s+1
	struct sockaddr	arp_ha;		\s-1/* hardware address */\s+1
	int		arp_flags;	\s-1/* flags */\s+1
};
/*  arp_flags field values */
#define	ATF_COM		0x02	\s-1/* completed entry (arp_ha valid) */\s+1
#define	ATF_PERM		0x04	\s-1/* permanent entry */\s+1
#define	ATF_PUBL		0x08	\s-1/* publish (respond for other host) */\s+1
#define	ATF_USETRAILERS	0x10	\s-1/* send trailer packets to host */\s+1
.fi
.LP
The address family for the
.I arp_pa
sockaddr must be AF_INET; for the 
.I arp_ha
sockaddr it must be AF_UNSPEC.
The only flag bits which may be written are ATF_PERM, ATF_PUBL
and ATF_USETRAILERS.
ATF_PERM causes the entry to be permanent if the ioctl call succeeds.
The peculiar nature of the ARP tables may cause the ioctl to fail if more
than 8 (permanent) Internet host addresses hash to the same slot.
ATF_PUBL specifies that the ARP code should respond to ARP requests for the
indicated host coming from other machines.  This allows a host to act as an
``ARP server,'' which may be useful in convincing an ARP-only machine to talk
to a non-ARP machine.
.PP
ARP is also used to negotiate the use of trailer IP encapsulations;
trailers are an alternate encapsulation used to allow efficient packet
alignment for large packets despite variable-sized headers.
Hosts which wish to receive trailer encapsulations so indicate
by sending gratuitous ARP translation replies along with replies
to IP requests; they are also sent in reply to IP translation replies.
The negotiation is thus fully symmetrical, in that either or both hosts
may request trailers.
The ATF_USETRAILERS flag is used to record the receipt of such a reply,
and enables the transmission of trailer packets to that host.
.PP
ARP watches passively for hosts impersonating the local host (i.e. a host
which responds to an ARP mapping request for the local host's address).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following messages can appear on the console:
.br
.B "\s-1arp: host with ether address %x:%x:%x:%x:%x:%x is using my IP address x.x.x.x\s+1"
.br
ARP has discovered another host on the local network which responds to
mapping requests for its own Internet address.
.br
.B "\s-1arp: ether address is broadcast for IP address x.x.x.x\s+1"
.br
ARP has discovered another host on the local network which maps that host's
IP address onto the ethernet broadcast address.
.SH SEE ALSO
inet(7F), arp(1M), ifconfig(1M), intro(3)
.br
``An Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol,'' RFC826, Dave Plummer,
Network Information Center, SRI.
.br
``Trailer Encapsulations,'' RFC893, S.J. Leffler and M.J. Karels,
Network Information Center, SRI.
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
