'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH man7.ip @(#)ip	30.3 of 2/1/86
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} IP 7P "Silicon Graphics" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} IP 7P "Source Code Control System Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} IP 7P "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} IP "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.UC 5
.SH NAME
ip \- Internet Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.PP
.B s = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_RAW, proto);
.SH DESCRIPTION
IP is the network layer protocol used
by the Internet protocol family.
Options may be set at the IP level
when using higher-level protocols that are based on IP
(such as TCP and UDP).
It may also be accessed
through a \*(lqraw socket\*(rq when developing new protocols, or
special purpose applications.
.PP
There are several IP-level 
.IR setsockopt (2)/ getsockopt (2)
options.
IP_OPTIONS may be used to provide IP header options to be transmitted 
in each outgoing packet or to examine the header options on incoming packets.
IP_OPTIONS may be used with any socket type in the Internet family.
The format of IP options to be sent is that specified by the IP protocol
specification (RFC-791), with one exception:
the list of addresses for Source Route options must include the first-hop
gateway at the beginning of the list of gateways.
The first-hop gateway address will be extracted from the option list
and the size adjusted accordingly before use.
To disable previously specified options, use a zero-length buffer:
.Ex
setsockopt(s, IPPROTO_IP, IP_OPTIONS, NULL, 0);
.Ee
IP_TOS and IP_TTL may be used to set the type-of-service and time-to-live
fields in the IP header for SOCK_STREAM and SOCK_DGRAM sockets. For example,
.Ex
int tos = IPTOS_LOWDELAY;	/* see <netinet/ip.h> */
int ttl = 60;			/* max = 255 */
setsockopt(s, IPPROTO_IP, IP_TOS, &tos, sizeof(tos));
setsockopt(s, IPPROTO_IP, IP_TTL, &ttl, sizeof(ttl));
.Ee
IP_HDRINCL indicates the complete IP header is included with the data
and may be used only with the SOCK_RAW type.
.Ex
int hincl = 1;			/* 1 = on, 0 = off */
setsockopt(s, IPPROTO_IP, IP_HDRINCL, &hincl, sizeof(hincl));
.Ee
.SS "Raw IP Sockets"
.PP
Raw IP sockets are connectionless,
and are normally used with the
.I sendto 
and
.I recvfrom 
calls, though the
.IR connect (2)
call may also be used to fix the destination for future
packets (in which case the 
.IR read (2)
or
.IR recv (2)
and 
.IR write (2)
or
.IR send (2)
system calls may be used).
Only the super-user can create raw IP sockets.
.PP
If
.I proto
is 0, the default protocol IPPROTO_RAW is used for outgoing
packets, and only incoming packets destined for that protocol
are received.
If
.I proto
is non-zero, that protocol number will be used on outgoing packets
and to filter incoming packets.
.PP
Outgoing packets automatically have an IP header prepended to
them (based on the destination address and the protocol
number the socket is created with), unless the IP_HDRINCL option has been set.
Incoming packets are received with IP header and options intact.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A socket operation may fail with one of the following errors returned:
.TP 15
[EACESS]
Permission to create a raw IP socket is denied.
.TP 15
[EISCONN]
when trying to establish a connection on a socket which
already has one, or when trying to send a datagram with the destination
address specified and the socket is already connected;
.TP 15
[ENOTCONN]
when trying to send a datagram, but
no destination address is specified, and the socket hasn't been
connected;
.TP 15
[ENOBUFS]
when the system runs out of memory for
an internal data structure;
.TP 15
[EADDRNOTAVAIL]
when an attempt is made to create a 
socket with a network address for which no network interface
exists.
.PP
The following errors specific to IP
may occur when setting or getting IP options:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
An unknown socket option name was given.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The IP option field was improperly formed;
an option field was shorter than the minimum value
or longer than the option buffer provided.
.SH SEE ALSO
getsockopt(2), send(2), recv(2), intro(3), icmp(7P), inet(7F), route(7F),
.br
\f2IRIX Network Programming Guide\fP
.br
RFC-791
'\".so /pubs/tools/origin.bsd
