.TH NDBM 7P
.SH NAME
ndbm \- local name service database
.SH SYNOPSIS
/var/ns/lib/libns_ndbm.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The ndbm client library fetches name service data out of an \fBndbm(3B)\fP
format database file on the local host.  This library is meant to
be used only by the \fBnsd(1M)\fP daemon to efficiently access local name
service data.
.PP
The library \fB/var/ns/lib/libns_ndbm.so\fP is opened by the \fBnsd(1M)\fP
daemon when \fBndbm\fP is listed as the protocol for some map in a
\fBnsswitch.conf\fP file.
.PP
The library contains code to fetch data from a local ndbm file and present
it as lines from the configuration file from which it came.  The nsd daemon
then presents that data in the filesystem mounted under /ns.
.PP
Extended attributes in the \fBnsswitch.conf\fP file can be used to control
the behavior of the ndbm library.  Extended attributes are simply lists of
key/value pairs attached to each object in the nsd filesystem.  The
attributes supported in this library are:
.TP
.B domain
This is the domainname given as a parameter to the remote name server.
This attribute is typically inherited from the daemon depending on the
nsswitch.conf file that is being read.  Given the configuration file
\fB/var/ns/domains/DOMAINNAME/nsswitch.conf\fP the attribute "domain"
is set to DOMAINNAME.  This attribute controls which file is used to
supply the requested information.  Given a domain DOMAINNAME the
library would open the file
\fB/var/ns/domains/DOMAINNAME/{table.dir,table.pag}\fP.  If the domain
attribute is unset then the file \fB/etc/{table.dir,table.pag}\fP would
be used.  See the information about the \fBtable\fP attribute below.  A
client system can be a member of multiple domains by including multiple
instances of the \fBndbm\fP keyword in the nsswitch.conf file like:
.nf
.in +.5i
hosts: ndbm(domain=engr) ndbm(domain=corp)
.in -.5i
.fi
.TP
.B table
The \fBtable\fP attribute is typically inherited from the daemon based on the
line from which this entry occurs in the nsswitch.conf file.  In the
above example the \fBtable\fP attribute would be set to
\fBhosts.byname\fP or \fBhosts.byaddr\fP depending on the context of
the request.  This attribute is used as the file name containing the
ndbm data. Ndbm databases are made up of two files, a directory file which
has a ".dir" extension and a data file which has a ".pag" extension.
For the \fBhosts.byname\fP map in the default domain the files
\fB/etc/hosts.byname.dir\fP and \fB/etc/hosts.byname.pag\fP would be
opened and searched.
.TP
.B key
The \fBkey\fP attribute is used to fetch the data from the ndbm(3B) database.  It is set by the nsd(1M) daemon, and is used without alteration.
.TP
.B file
The \fBfile\fP attribute overrides the domain and table attributes to set the 
name of the file to be opened.  If the file begins with a leading '/'
then that file is simply opened.  If not, then the contents of this
attribute are appended to the directory name -- either \fB/etc/\fP for
the default domain, or \fB/var/ns/domains/DOMAINNAME/\fP when the
domain attribute is set.  The file should not have any extension; the
".dir" and ".pag" are automatically appended when opening the files.
.TP
.B null_extend_key
The \fBnull_extend_key\fP attribute specifies that the null character which
terminates the key is really part of the key.  Some applications (such as
sendmail) have historically included the null in the key so this attribute
provides backward compatibility with the old behavior.
.SH FILES
/var/ns/lib/libns_ndbm.so
.SH SEE ALSO
nsd(1M), nsswitch.conf(4)
.br
\fBIRIX Admin: Networking and Mail\fP
