'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} SATMP 7 "Trusted Networking" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} SATMP 7 "Trusted Networking"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} SATMP 7 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} SATMP "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
satmp \- Security Attribute Token Mapping Protocol (SATMP) 
.SH DESCRIPTION
To improve performance, TSIX attributes in the SAMP header are 
represented by 32 bit tokens. The SATMP  protocol is used to
convert security attributes in the format native to the local system into
tokens useful to the destination system.  
The SATMP consists of three types of exchanges, an initialization
handshake, a token mapping exchange, and a token resolution exchange.
A Domain of Translation (DOT) identifies a set of translation tables a
system uses when converting security attributes between its native format
and the network representation understood in that domain. 
.PP
During the SATMP handshake, the
two systems determine which predefined Domain of Translation (DOT) they
have in common for each required attribute.  The remote host (rhosts)
database specifies which attributes are required of each host, and what
defaults may be substituted if the remote host can't supply a particular
attribute.  The remote host database also allows the system to distiguish
which hosts it needs to specify TSIX to, which need only IP Options, and
which are unlabelled, and what level of trust to assign each.  If the two
hosts trying to communicate can not agree on a common Domain of Translation
(DOT) for each attribute or supply appropriate defaults (local policy),
access is not permitted.  For more information,
see http://ftp.sterling.com:80/tsig/tsix/tsix1.1/samp/satmp.html
.SH "SEE ALSO"
iflabel(1m),
rhost(1m),
satmpd(1m),
trusted_networking(7),
samp(7p),
tsix(7p)

