'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} TRUSTED_NETWORKING 7 "Trusted Networking" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} TRUSTED_NETWORKING 7 "Trusted Networking"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} TRUSTED_NETWORKING 7 "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} TRUSTED_NETWORKING "" "" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
trusted_networking \- Trusted IRIX network administration: basic concepts.
.SH PURPOSE
The purpose of trusted networking is to properly associate 
security attributes with data that is
imported to or exported from the system, and to enforce system security
policy on that data.
.SH POLICIES
In the current release of Trusted IRIX, the policies enforced by
the trusted networking code are as follows.
.PP
.RS 5
Received packet labels must fall within the label range of the
interface and the host or network.
.PP
Delivered data must have a label dominated by the label of the
receiving process.  The uid of the delivered
data must be permitted by the socket ACL.
.PP
Trusted process that have set the extended attributes
mode do not have delivery policy enforced, but
must enforce appropriate policy based on the attributes
available through the TSIX API. 
.RE 
.SH TSIX 
Trusted IRIX employs the Trusted Security Information Exchange (TSIX)
standard, which was created by the Trusted Systems Interoperability Group
(TSIG) to address to shortcomings of IP labeling in a way that would let
various vendors interoperate with one another.  TSIX is a specification of
a session layer protocol for passing all the attributes needed to enforce
policy between two systems.  For more information, see
http://ftp.sterling.com:80/tsig.
.PP
In previous releases of Trusted IRIX, network access control
decisions were based on information contained in the Security Option in the
IP header of each datagram.  While the IP Security Option is adequate for
many applications, it is limited to 40 bytes of information, so it 
cannot contain all of the security attributes of the remote user.
.SH SAMP 
The protocol TSIX uses to communicate the attributes between
systems is the Security Attribute Modulation Protocol (SAMP).  This
consists of a header and a list of attributes that are prepended to
outgoing data as if it were user data.  The TCB at one end puts the headers
on and the TCB at the other end pulls them off before the data gets passed
to the user process.
.SH SATMP
To improve performance, attributes are represented by 32 bit tokens.  The
Security Attribute Token Mapping Protocol (SATMP) protocol is used to
convert security attributes in the format native to the local system into
tokens useful to the destination system.  
.SH DOT
A Domain of Translation (DOT) identifies a set of translation tables a
system uses when converting security attributes between its native format
and the network representation understood in that domain. 
.SH "IP Security Options"
The following IP Security Options are recognized by the trusted
networking software.
.SS RIPSO
The Revised IP Security Option was proposed by the US Department of
Defense.  RIPSO includes two types of security options. The Basic Security
Option (BSO), accommodates sixteen security classifications and a variable
number of handling restrictions. The Extended Security Option (ESO), used
in conjunction with the BSO, encodes security compartments and other
security information. RIPSO is described by RFC 1108, U.S. Department of
Defense Security Options for the Internet Protocol.  For more information,
see Internet RFC 1108 or http://ftp.sterling.com:80/tsig/references/ripso.
.SS CIPSO
The Commercial IP Security Option was proposed by the Trusted Systems
Interoperability Group with the intent of meeting trusted networking
requirements for the commercial trusted systems market place. CIPSO is
capable of supporting multiple security policies, although the CIPSO draft
as of this writing only defines the formats and procedures required to
support mandatory access control.  For more information, see
http://ftp.sterling.com:80/tsig/tsix/tsix1.1/cipso/cipso.html.
.SS SGIPSO
This is CIPSO with additional vendor tag types
for administrative labels, integrity labels and uids.  This will only
interoperate with other SGI systems and is required by SGI systems to
enforce security policy in the evaluated configuration.  

.SH "Processing at Network and Host Levels"
Under Trusted IRIX, processing of imported and exported security labels
occurs at two levels.  At the Network
Level, IP Security Options are used to route traffic.  At the Session
Manager Level, SAMP and SATMP are used to send all the Security Attributes
required to enforce securty policy between network components.
.SS "Host Categories"
There are three categories of host from which Trusted IRIX can receive
packets: another TSIX host, a non-TSIX host that puts a security option in
the IP header and an unlabelled host.  Policy is enforced as follows.
.TP 16
TSIX Host
Policy is enforced at both the network level and the
SAMP level.  At the network level, a check is made to determine whether
the IP security option information is within the range of the interface.   
At the SAMP level, a check is made to determine whether the data should 
be delivered to the process for which it is intended.
.TP 16
IP-Option Host
Only the interface level check is performed,
based on the information in the security option and the range of the interface.
.TP 16
Unlabelled Host
Access decisions are based on defaults for that
interface and that host.  
.SS "Network Level Access Decisions"
A received packet either has a SGIPSO, CIPSO, or RIPSO option, or is
unlabelled.  In the first case, the sensitivity label is extracted and, if it
is not within the label range of the interface, it is dropped.  In the case
of an unlabelled packet, the sensitivity label is obtained from the default
label of the interface if present, otherwise from the host or network entry
in the rhost database is used.  If the default label is not within the 
range of the interface the packet is dropped.
.PP
An integrity label range may be specified for the interface.  If present,
the integrity from the SGIPSO Tag will be used for the label range
comparison, otherwise the default integrity for either the interface
or host will be used as for unlabeled packet processing.
.PP
For packets that are routed, or that are replied to by the TCB, for
example ICMP, the outgoing packets will have the same label as the
received packet.  That label will be used for a label range check
against the outgoing interface, and the packet will be dropped if
not within range.
.PP
For TSIX hosts, the IP header label is not used further for
policy.  For unlabled hosts, and for non-TSIX hosts the IP
label is used for any further policy decisions.
.SS "Host Level Access Decisions"
For TSIX hosts, the security attributes are provided in the SAMP header.
Attributes identified as mandatory that are not present in SAMP header are
first supplied from the interface, and then from the rhost database default
entry.  If all mandatory attributes are not present, the packet is dropped
in the case of UDP, or the connection is closed for TCP.  The session
manager maintains a composite set of attributes for the socket that
consists of the last modulated attributes and any defaults.  Theae
composite attributes are the attributes used to enforce policy on delivery
to applications, and are available to trusted applications via the TSIX
API.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
libt6(3N),
iflabel(1m),
rhost(1m),
satmpd(1m),
satmp(7p),
samp(7p),
tsix(7p)
