'\"macro stdmacro
.TH UNIX 7F
.UC 5
.SH NAME
unix \-
.SM UNIX\c
-domain protocol family
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/un.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de _d
.if t .ta .6i 2.1i 2.6i
.\" 2.94 went to 2.6, 3.64 to 3.30
.if n .ta .84i 2.6i 3.30i
..
.de _f
.if t .ta .5i 1.25i 2.5i
.\" 3.5i went to 3.8i
.if n .ta .7i 1.75i 3.8i
..
The
.SM UNIX\c
-domain protocol family is a collection of protocols
that provides local (on-machine) interprocess
communication through the normal
.IR socket (2)
mechanisms.
The 
.SM UNIX\c
-domain family supports the
SOCK_STREAM and SOCK_DGRAM socket types and uses
filesystem pathnames for addressing.
.SH ADDRESSING
.SM UNIX\c
-domain addresses are variable-length filesystem pathnames of
at most 108 characters.
The include file
.RI < sys/un.h >
defines this address:
.sp 1
.nf
._f
struct sockaddr_un {
	short	sun_family;
	char	sun_path[108];
};
.sp 1
.fi
Binding a name to a
.SM UNIX\c
-domain socket with
.IR bind (2)
causes a socket file to be created in the filesystem.
This file is
.I not
removed when the socket is closed \(em
.IR unlink (2)
must be used to remove the file.
.PP
The
.SM UNIX\c
-domain does not support broadcast addressing or any form
of \*(lqwildcard\*(rq matching on incoming messages. 
All addresses are absolute- or relative-pathnames
of other
.SM UNIX\c
-domain sockets.
Normal filesystem access-control mechanisms are also
applied when referencing pathnames; e.g., the destination
of a
.IR connect (2)
or
.IR sendto (2)
must be writable.
.SH PROTOCOLS
The 
.SM UNIX\c
-domain protocol family is comprised of simple
transport protocols that support the
.SM SOCK_STREAM
and
.SM SOCK_DGRAM
abstractions.
.SM SOCK_STREAM
sockets also support the communication of 
.UX
file descriptors through the use of the
.I msg_accrights
field in the
.I msg
argument to
.IR sendmsg (2)
and
.IR recvmsg (2).
Any valid descriptor may be sent in a message.
The received descriptor is a 
.I duplicate
of the sender's descriptor, as if it were created with a call to
.IR dup (2).
Per-process descriptor flags, set with
.IR fcntl (2),
are 
.I not
passed to a receiver.
Descriptors that are awaiting delivery, or that are
purposely not received, are automatically closed by the system
when the destination socket is closed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.IR bind (2)
and
.IR connect (2)
socket operations may fail with one of the following errors returned:
.TP 20
.SM
\%[ENOTDIR]
A component of the
path prefix
is not a directory.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.SM
\%[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the
path prefix.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.SM
.IR {PATH_MAX} ,
or a pathname component is longer than
.SM
.IR {NAME_MAX} .
.TP
.SM
\%[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.SH SEE ALSO
socket(2), netintro(7)
.br
\f2IRIX Network Programming Guide\fP.
