.TH vh 7M
.SH NAME
vh \- disk volume header
.SH DESCRIPTION
The volume header is a small partition at the start of every SGI disk.
Typically it occupies about 2 megabytes, large enough to hold files
used to boot the system.  Option disks typically do not need this much
space, but are initialized the same so that they can be easily made into
system disks if desired.
It contains identifying information for the disk and may also contain
some files used in standalone operations when the operating system is
not running.
.PP
The volume header of the system root disk can be accessed as
.IR /dev/rvh .
.PP
The volume header partitions of other disks can be accessed via the
appropriate files in the
.I /dev/rdsk
directory; the volume
header special files are identified by the suffix `vh'.
The block devices are not created by default.
If they are created specially, they can be used also.
.sp .8v
The first sector of the volume header (and hence the first sector on the
entire disk) contains the
.IR "disk label" .
The structure of this is defined in the file
.IR <sys/dvh.h> .
The file is
quite extensively commented, and it is worth referring to it as a supplement
to the information in this reference page.
.PP
The disk label contains the following sections:
.TP
Magic Number
This is a unique number which serves to verify that the sector does
contain a label.
.TP
Root Partition Identifier
If the disk is a system disk, this field identifies the partition to be used
as the root partition.
The information was used by older boot PROMs when the system was booted.
It is redundant on all current systems (those supported by this release),
but is still set.  It is used only if the value of the nvram variable
.I OSLoadFilename
is not set (either permanently, or as derived from the other nvram
variables).
.TP
Swap Partition Identifier
This information is used during system boot.
.TP
Boot Filename
This information is used during system boot; it identifies the
executable file to be loaded by default (normally the operating system).
.TP
Device Parameters
This section is no longer used for any device-specific geometry information,
despite it's name.  Older style disk controllers, such as ESDI and SMD that
required it are no longer supported.  Currently only the queuing depth to
be used for each disk drive is read by the disk driver from this structure.
.TP
Volume Directory
As well as the label, the volume header partition can store
files in the remaining space.
These are NOT regular system
files; they are accessed only via the PROM or standalone shell and do not
need to appear in any regular directory.  They are typically installed
in the volume header when the operating system is installed.
.IP
The Volume Directory is a table in the disk label which enables such files
to be located by the PROMs.
Files in the volume header can be added or
removed by
.IR dvhtool (1M).
Filenames may be from 1 to 8 characters long.
.TP
Partitions
Disk space is required for a number of different purposes in a system.
It is not usually practical or desirable to dedicate an entire physical
disk to each use, so the disk surface is divided into a number of
partitions.
Typically a partition contains a filesystem (such as
.IR /usr )
or is used for non-filesystem storage, such as swap.
The volume header
itself is also a partition.
Partitions can overlap:
for example, the
.I vol
partition is defined to be the whole disk (useful for disk cloning).
.IP
In order to direct I/O requests to the correct part of the disk, the driver
must know the layout of the partitions.
This is specified in the partition
table contained in the disk label.
.P
The disk label is created by
.I fx
when the disk is first initialized.
A convenient summary of its contents can be printed by
.IR prtvtoc (1M).
.SH FILES
/dev/rvh
.br
/dev/rdsk/*vh
.SH SEE ALSO
dvhtool(1M),
fx(1M),
prtvtoc(1M).
