'\"macro stdmacro
.TH SGIKOPT 2
.SH NAME
sgikopt \- retrieve kernel option strings
.Op c p a
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.B "int sgikopt (const char \(**option, char \(**buf, int buflen);"
.Op
.Op f
.SH FORTRAN SYNOPSIS
.B "integer *4 function sgikopt (option, buf, buflen)"
.br
.B "character * (*) option"
.br
.B "character * (*) buf"
.br
.B "integer *4 buflen"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The IRIX kernel saves most of the IRIS PROM Monitor environment variables
(option strings)
for later use by the kernel as well as user programs.
.I sgikopt
allows the user to retrieve the values of these variables.
The \f2option\f1 argument specifies the name of the variable;
the value of the option is returned in the buffer addressed by \f2buf\f1.
The size in bytes of this buffer is given by \f2buflen\f1.
The string returned by \f2sgikopt\f1 is guaranteed to be null-terminated,
even if the length of the option value string exceeds \f2buflen\f1.
.PP
The environment variables recognized by \f2sgikopt\f1 are as follows:
.sp
.TP 15
\s-1bootfile\s+1
The name of the file to use for autobooting.
.TP
\s-1bootmode\s+1
The type of boot performed:
.B m
to enter the PROM Monitor after clearing memory,
.B d
to enter the PROM Monitor without clearing memory,
or
.B c
to perform an autoboot using the bootfile.
.TP
\s-1console\s+1
The console to use:
.B g
for graphics console,
.B G
for graphics console with logo,
or
.B d
for serial terminal port 1.
.TP
\s-1diskless\s+1
If this variable is set, the system expects to mount it's root filesystem
via NFS from a server.  It may be set even if a local disk is installed,
in which case the local root disk is ignored.
.TP
\s-1dllogin\s+1
When \f2diskless\fP is set, this is the login name to use during installation
on a diskless machine.  See
.IR cl_init (1m)
for more information.
.TP
\s-1dlserver\s+1
When \f2diskless\fP is set, this is the hostname of the machine from which
the root filesystem will be mounted.
It should be set in standard IP address format.
.TP
\s-1gfx\s+1
An variable indicating if graphics state:
.B alive
or
.B dead.
.TP
\s-1hostname\s+1
The Internet host name string.
.TP
\s-1initfile\s+1
The process control initialization program
if the default,
.I /etc/init,
is overridden.
See \f2init\f1(1M).
.TP
\s-1initstate\s+1
The run level to override the default state present in
.I /etc/inittab.
See \f2inittab\f1(4).
.TP
\s-1keybd\s+1
The international keyboard type.
.TP
\s-1monitor\s+1
Overrides the default monitor setting when an unrecognized monitor is
attached to an Indy system.  Specifying 'h' or 'H' indicates the attached
monitor supports high resolution mode (1280x1024 @ 60Hz).  Otherwise the
default resolution is low resolution (1024x768 @ 60Hz).  This variable is
usable only on an Indy system and is stored in non-volatile RAM.
.TP
\s-1netaddr\s+1
The Internet network address for booting across the Ethernet.
.TP
\s-1logocolor\s+1
The color of the logo while in the standalone programs, and the kernel
textport (no window manager running) is controlled by this variable.
It is 6 hex digits, which are the values for red, green, and blue in that
order.
This is currently implemented only on the Personal Iris.
.TP
\s-1nswap\s+1
The number of blocks to use in the swap partition;
this amount overrides the partition size.
.TP
\s-1pagecolor\s+1
The color of the textport while in the standalone programs, and the kernel
textport (no window manager running) is controlled by this variable.
It is 6 hex digits, which are the values for red, green, and blue in that
order.
This is currently implemented only on the Personal Iris.
.TP
\s-1root\s+1
The disk that contains the root (/) file system (as it would be named
in the /dev/dsk directory).
.TP
\s-1screencolor\s+1
The color of the screen background while in the standalone programs, and the kernel
textport (no window manager running) is controlled by this variable.
It is 6 hex digits, which are the values for red, green, and blue in that
order.
This is currently implemented only on the Personal Iris.
.TP
\s-1showconfig\s+1
If this variable is specified,
the kernel will print out verbose information about
memory and device configuration at boottime.
.TP
\s-1srvaddr\s+1
If set, this specifies the (only) host that will be used to resolve
bootp requests.
It should be set in standard IP address format.
.TP
\s-1swaplo\s+1
The first block to use in the swap partition;
this amount overrides the default value of 0.
.TP
\s-1sync_on_green\s+1
If this value is \f3n\f1,
the sync information is not superimposed on the green monitor line.
.TP
\s-1tapedevice\s+1
The tape device used for software installation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion,
.I sgikopt
returns 0.
Otherwise,
.I sgikopt
returns \-1 and sets
.I errno
to indicate the error:
.sp 1
.TP 15
\s-1\%[EINVAL]\s+1
The given
.I option
was not found.
.TP
\s-1\%[EFAULT]\s+1
The
.I option
or
.I buf
argument specifies an invalid address.
.SH SEE ALSO
syssgi(2) - the \f3SGI_GETNVRAM\fP command provides almost the same
functionality.
