'\"macro stdmacro
.\" @(#)autofs.1m 1.40 94/02/24 SMI; from SVr4
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.nr X
.TH autofs 1M "23 Feb 1994"
.SH NAME
autofs \- install automatic mount points
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/etc/autofs
[
.B \-v
] [
.BI \-t " duration"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "autofs command" "" "\fLautofs\fP \(em install automatic mount points" "" PAGE START
.IX "AutoFS" "automatically mount filesystems" "" "automatically mount filesystems \(em \fLautofs\fP"
.LP
\f3autofs\f1
is a command that installs 
.B AutoFS 
mount points and associates
an 
.B AutoFS 
map with each mount point.
The 
.B AutoFS 
filesystem monitors attempts to access
directories within it and notifies the
.BR autofsd (1M)
daemon.  The daemon uses the map to locate a filesystem,
which it then mounts at the point of reference
within the 
.B AutoFS 
filesystem.
If the filesystem is not accessed within
an appropriate interval (five minutes by default),
the 
.B autofsd 
daemon unmounts the filesystem.
.LP
.B AutoFS
is started by the
.I /etc/init.d/network
script, if the configuration flags ``nfs'' and ``autofs''
are set ``on'' at system initialization. (See autofsd(1M).)
The script starts the
.B autofsd 
daemon and invokes the
.B autofs
command.
The
\f3autofs\f1 
command consults the master map, a local file named
.BR /etc/auto_master , 
for a list of 
.B AutoFS
mount points
and their maps.
The master map contains the locations of all
.B AutoFS
mount points.
By default,
.I /etc/auto_master
contains an entry for the
.BI -hosts
map:
.IP
.ft 3
.nf
.ta +15n +15n +15n 
/hosts	-hosts	-nosuid
.ft 1
.fi
.LP
Each entry in the master file specifies
a directory on which an
.B AutoFS
mount will be made
followed by the 
.B AutoFS 
map to be associated
with that mount point. Mount options may be supplied
as an optional third field in each entry.
These options are used for any entries in the
map that do not specify mount options explicitly.
.LP
.B AutoFS 
maps can be 
.B executable 
binary or script files too. Any AutoFS map pointing to a file
with execute permission set may be considered an executable map file which
the autofs daemon will attempt to execute at mount time. The output (on stdout) of this 
executable map file is used as part of the AutoFS map. Look at the 
.B -E
option in the 
.B autofsd
man page for more information on executable maps.
.LP
The
.B autofs 
command is usually run without arguments.
It compares the entries in
.I /etc/auto_master
with the current list of
.B AutoFS
mounts in
.I /etc/mtab
and adds, removes or updates
.B AutoFS
mounts to bring the
.I /etc/mtab
up to date with
.I /etc/auto_master.
At boot time the
.B autofs
command installs all 
.B AutoFS 
mounts from the
master map.
Subsequently, it may be run to install 
.B AutoFS 
mounts for new
entries in the master map, or to perform
unmounts for entries that have been removed.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-t\f2 duration\f1
Specify a
.IR duration ,
in seconds,
that a filesystem is to remain mounted when not in use.
The default is 300 (5 minutes).
.TP
\f3-v\f1
Verbose mode.
Notify of 
.B AutoFS 
mounts, unmounts or other
non-essential information.
.br
.ne 4
.SH USAGE
.SS Map Entry Format
.LP
The format for master map entries was discussed above.
Entries in other map files take the form:
.IP
key
[
-mount-options\f1
]
.I location\ .\|.\|.
.LP
where
.I key
is the full pathname of the directory to mount
when used in a direct map, 
or the simple name of a subdirectory in an indirect map.
.I mount-options
is a comma-separated list of mount options, and
.I location
specifies a filesystem from which the
directory may be mounted.
In the case of a simple NFS mount,
.I location
takes the form:
.IP
.I hostname\|:\|pathname
.LP
.I hostname
is the name of the host from which to mount the filesystem
(it may be omitted if the pathname refers to a local device
on which the filesystem resides)
and
.I pathname
is the pathname of the directory to mount.
So, /etc/auto_master might contain an entry such as:
.Ex
/src  /etc/auto_src	-nosuid
.Ee
where /etc/auto_src contains:
.Ex
new		awesome:/latest/src
old	 -ro	cave:/archive
.Ee
Accessing /src/{new,old} would result in a mount of the 
corresponding remote filesystem.
.LP
.SS Replicated Filesystems
Multiple
.I location
fields can be specified for replicated NFS filesystems,
in which case \f3autofs\f1 
chooses the server that responds first.
.LP
If each \f2location\f1 in the list shares the same
\f2pathname\f1 then a single \f2location\f1 may be used with a
comma-separated list of hostnames:
.IP
.I hostname1,\|hostname2\|...:\|pathname
.LP
A mapping can be continued across input lines by escaping the
.SM NEWLINE
with a `\|\\\|' (backslash).
Comments begin with a '#' (pound sign) and end at the subsequent
.SM NEWLINE\s0.
.br
.ne 6
.SS Map Key Substitution"
The '&' (ampersand) character is expanded to the value of the
.I key 
field for the entry in which it occurs.
In this case:
.LP
.Ex
whozi onyxserver:/home/&
.Ee
the & expands to 
.IR whozi .
.br
.ne 7
.SS "\f2Wildcard Key\fP"
.LP
The '*' (asterisk) character, when supplied as the 
.I key
field, is recognized as the catch-all entry.
Such an entry will match any key not previously matched.
For instance,
if the following entry appeared in the indirect map for
.IR /config :
.IP
*	&:/public/config/&
.LP
this would allow automatic mounts in 
.I /config
of any remote filesystem whose location could be specified as:
.IP
hostname\|:/public/config/hostname
.br
.ne 6
.br
.SS "\f2Variable Substitution\fP"
.LP
Client specific variables can be used within an \f3AutoFS\f1
map.
For instance, if 
.I \|$HOST 
appeared within a map,
.B autofs 
would expand it to its current value for the
client's host name. Supported variables are:
.LP
.TP 20
ARCH		The output of uname -m. The system's architecture.
			For example "IP19"
.TP
CPU		The output of uname -p.	The processor type.
			For example "mips"
.TP
HOST		The output of uname -n.	The host name. 
			For example "ferd"
.TP
OSNAME	The output of uname -s.	The OS name. 
			For example "IRIX"
.TP
OSREL	The output of uname -r.	The OS release name.
			For example "6.2"
.TP
OSVERS	The output of uname -v.	The OS version. 
			For example "10230951"
.TE
.LP
If a reference needs to be protected from affixed characters,
you can surround the variable name with '{\|}' (curly braces).
.SS "\f2Multiple Mounts\fP"
.LP
A multiple mount entry takes the form:
.LP
.IP
key
[ 
-mount-options\f1 ]
[\|[\f2mountpoint\fP]\|
.RI [ \-mount-options ]
.IR location .\|.\|.\|]\|.\|.\|.
.RE
.LP
The initial
/[\f2mountpoint\|\f1]
is optional for the first mount and mandatory for all
subsequent mounts.
The optional
.I mountpoint
is taken as a pathname relative to the
directory named by 
.I key.
If
.I mountpoint
is omitted in the first occurrence, a mountpoint of 
/ (root) is implied.
.LP
Given an entry in the indirect map for /src:
.Ex
beta\ \-ro\ \e
.ta +5n +15n +15n 
	/	svr1,svr2:/public/src/beta\ \ \ \e
	/1.0	svr1,svr2:/public/src/beta/1.0\ \ \ \e
	/1.0/man	svr1,svr2:/public/src/beta/1.0/man
.Ee
.LP
.B autofs
would automatically mount
.IR /src/beta ,
.IR /src/beta/1.0 ,
and 
.IR /src/beta/1.0/man\f1 , 
as needed, from either
.I svr1 
or 
.IR svr2 , 
whichever host responds first.
.SS "Other Filesystem Types"
.LP
.B AutoFS 
assumes NFS Version 3 mounts as the default filesystem
type. Should the server not support NFS V3, 
.B AutoFS 
will retry the mount(s) using the NFS V2 filesystem type.
Users can select a particular version of the NFS protocol 
using the
.B vers={2,3}
mount option (see fstab(4)).
.LP
Other filesystem types can be described using the
.B fstype
mount option.
Other mount options specific to this filesystem type
can be combined with the
.I fstype
option.
The location field must contain information specific to
the filesystem type.
If the location field begins with a slash, a colon
character must be prepended.
.LP
Mounts using 
.I CacheFS 
are most useful when applied to
an entire map as map defaults.
The following entry in the master map describes cached
home directory mounts.  It assumes the default location
of the cache directory, /cache.
.Ex
/home	auto_home	-fstype=cachefs,backfstype=nfs
.Ee
.LP
The \fBbackfstype\fP option is required for \fICacheFS\fP map entries.
.SS Indirect Maps
.LP
An indirect map allows you to specify mappings for the
subdirectories you wish to mount under the
.I directory
chosen as the 
.B AutoFS
mount point.
In an indirect map, each
.I key 
consists of a simple name (i.e., subdirectory) that refers 
to one or more filesystems that are to be mounted as needed.
.SS Direct Maps
.LP
Entries in a direct map are associated directly with
.B AutoFS
mount points.
Each 
.I key 
is the full pathname of an 
.B AutoFS 
mount point.
The direct map as a whole is not associated with any
single directory.
.SS Included Maps
.LP
The contents of another map can be  included  within  a  map with an
entry of the form
.I +mapname
, or by supplying 
.I mapname 
(without the "+") in the location field of a map entry.  If mapname
begins with a slash then it is assumed to be the pathname of a local
file.  Otherwise the location of the map is determined by the policy
of the name service switch according to the entry for the automounter
in \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fP, such as

.in +0.5in
automount(dynamic): files nis(nis_enumerate_key) ldap
.in -0.5in
 
If the name service is \fBfiles\fP then the name is assumed to be that
of a local file in \fB/etc\fP.  \fBNIS\fP requires the addition of the
\fBnis_enumerate_key\fP attribute; see \fBnis(7P)\fP. If the key
being searched for is not found in the included map, the search
continues with the next entry subject to control options. See
\fBnsswitch.conf(4)\fP.  The \fBdynamic\fP attribute is required to
notify the Name Service Daemon (nsd) that the automount map allows
dynamic map creation. See \fBnsd(1M)\fP.
.SS Special Maps
.LP
There are two special maps available: \f3\-hosts\f1 and \f3\-null\f1.
By default, the \f3\-hosts\f1 map is used with the \f3/hosts\f1 directory.
It assumes that the map key is the hostname of an NFS server.
The 
.B autofsd 
daemon dynamically constructs a map entry from
the server's list of exported filesystems. (See NOTES
on 
.BR -nohide .)
For instance a reference to 
.I /hosts/bart/usr 
would
initiate an automatic mount of all exported filesystems
from 
.I bart 
that are mountable by the client.
References to a directory under 
.I /hosts/bart 
will refer
to the corresponding directory relative to 
.I bart's 
root.
.LP
The
\f3\-null\f1
map, when indicated in a map entry,
cancels a previous map for the directory indicated.
This is most useful in the 
.I /etc/auto_master 
file for cancelling
entries that would otherwise be inherited from the NIS
.I auto_master 
map, if included. To be effective, the \f3\-null\f1
entries must be inserted before the included map entry.
.LP
.SS Configuration and the auto.master File
.I autofs
normally consults the 
.I /etc/auto_master
configuration file for a list of initial autofs maps, and sets up
automatic mounts for them. This behavior differs from automount in that
.I autofs 
does not take maps on the command line, nor does it look at the auto.master NIS map by default.
Extra mappings (either NIS or file based) should be specified within the 
.I /etc/auto_master
configuration file itself. To default to the automount behavior, for backward compatibility with old automount maps, the user should have one line in the 
.I /etc/auto_master
configuration file, pointing to the 
.SM NIS
.I auto.master
map of the form:
.IP 
+auto.master
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
/etc/auto_master
master AutoFS map.
.TP
/etc/config/autofs.options
options and arguments for the
.B autofs
command and the
.B autofsd
daemon.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
autofsd (1M), chkconfig (1M), exports (4), fstab (4), mount (1M),
nsd(1M), nsswitch.conf (4)
.LP
.SH NOTES
The 
.B \-hosts 
map mounts all of the exported NFS
filesystems, for which the client
has access, from a server. Use the
.I nohide
export option on the server (see exports(4)) to 
minimize the number of mounts performed by clients. AutoFS
will not request a separate mount for a
.I nohide
filesystem, if the client has access via the parent filesystem.
If frequent access to just a single filesystem
is required, it is more efficient to access the filesystem
with a map entry that is tailored to mount just the
filesystem of interest.
.LP
.B AutoFS 
mount points must not be hierarchically related.  
\f3autofs\f1 does not allow an 
.B AutoFS
mount point to be created within another 
.B AutoFS 
mount.
.LP
Since each direct map entry results in a new 
.B AutoFS 
mount such maps should be kept short.
.LP
If a directory contains direct map mount points
then an `ls -l' in the directory will force all
of the direct map mounts to occur.
.LP
Entries in both direct and indirect maps can be modified at any time.
The new information is used when 
.B autofsd 
next uses the map entry to do a mount.  
.LP
New entries added to a master map or direct map will not be
useful until the 
.B autofs 
command is run to install them as new 
.B AutoFS 
mount points.
New entries added to an indirect map may be used immediately.
.LP
An 
.B AutoFS 
directory associated with an indirect map shows only 
currently-mounted entries.  This is a deliberate policy to
avoid inadvertent mounting of every entry in a map via an 
`ls -l' of the directory.
.LP
The multiple location feature for NFS mounts allows the
.B autofsd 
daemon to choose the most appropriate server at mount time.
While such a mount is in effect, the daemon does
not monitor the status of the server.  If the server
crashes, 
.B autofsd 
will not select an alternative
server from the list.
.LP
Default mount options can be assigned to an entire map when
specified as an optional third field in the master map.
These options apply only to map entries that have no mount
options.
.LP
When using NSD to resolve map queries, Autofs actually creates map
directories under the automount directory in 
.B /ns/.local.
So, the NIS map 
.B auto_home 
would be created as 
.B /ns/.local/automount/auto_home

.SH CAVEAT(S)
It is important not to have the execute permission set on a standard text 
.B AutoFS
map, as this may cause autofs to attempt to execute the file assuming that the
standard text map file is an executable
.B AutoFS
map file. Look at the
.B -E
option in the 
.B autofsd
man page for more information on executable maps.

.IX "autofs command" "" "\fLautofs\fP \(em automatically mount NFS filesystems" "" PAGE END
