.TH snmpd 1M local "Silicon Graphics, Inc."
.SH NAME
snmpd \- \&Simple Network Management Protocol daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3/usr/etc/snmpd\f1 [ \f3\-d\f1 debug ] [ \f3\-l\f1 loglevel ] [ \c
\f3\-u\f1 namelist ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f2snmpd\fP is a daemon for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
as specified in Internet RFC 1157, and supports MIB II, as specified in
Internet RFC 1213.
The daemon, called the SNMP agent,
can be configured to run from the network star-tup script at boot time by the
command \f2chkconfig snmpd on\fP or started from the command line.
You must be superuser (root) to run \f2snmpd\fP.
\f2snmpd\fP listens on a \f2udp\fP(7P) socket for the \f2snmp\fP
service for SNMP queries.
If no such service can be found,
a default port of 161 is used.
By default, \f2snmpd\fP logs its
messages to \f2syslog\fP(3B).
.P
\f2snmpd\fP checks that each incoming request is authorized.
The file
\f2/etc/snmpd.auth\fP is used to specify sets of hosts and
SNMP communities that have either \f3get\fP or \f3set\fP privileges.
Entries in the file have the form
.Ex
accept	hostname:community/operation ...
reject	hostname:community/operation ...
.Ee
where the wildcard character \f3*\fP can stand for all hosts or
all communities.
A comma can be used to list multiple hosts or
communities.
.P
For example, suppose \f2snmpd\fP were to accept \f3get\fP and \f3set\fP
requests from the host \f3iris1\fP or \f3iris2\fP with the community \f3sgi\fP
and accept \f3get\fP requests from any host with the community \f3public\fP.
The \f2/etc/snmpd.auth\fP entries would be
.Ex
accept	iris1:sgi
accept	iris2:sgi
accept	*:public/get
.Ee
.P
or equivalently, on one line
.Ex
accept	iris1,iris2:sgi *:public/get
.Ee
.P
.SS Supported Sets
.P
\f2snmpd\fP supports SNMP sets when authorized by the above mechanism.
There are some caveats to using sets, however:
.P
The deprecated Address Translation table does not support sets.
Use the IP Net-to-Media table instead.
.P
The IP forwarding flag, ipForwarding, cannot be set.
.P
The IP default time to live, ipDefaultTTL, cannot be set.
.P
Existing rows in the IP Route table, for which ipRouteType is not invalid,
cannot be modified.
A row may be removed by setting ipRouteType to invalid,
as stated in RFC 1213.
A row may be added by sets to the IP Route table with
the new variables.
Default values are added for variables that are not included.
The row is committed and added to the kernel route table when the ipRouteType
is set from invalid to any other state.
.P
Existing rows in the IP Net-to-Media table, for which ipNettoMediaType is not
invalid, cannot be modified.
A row may be removed by setting ipNettoMediaType
to invalid as stated in RFC 1213.
A row may be added by sets to IP
Net-to-Media table with the new variables.
Default values are added for
variables that are not included.
The row is committed and added to the kernel arp
table when the ipNettoMediaType is set from invalid to any other state.
.P
The TCP connection state, tcpConnState, cannot be set.
.P
.SS Remote Subagents
.P
\f2snmpd\fP supports forwarding requests to \f2subagents\f1.
These subagents manage proprietary parts of the MIB.
They must be able to handle
the \f2snmp\fP protocol, including the ASN1 encoding and decoding of packets.
The subagents must not use the standard \f2snmp\fP port 161\f2udp\fP, which 
is used
by \f2snmpd\fP.
.P
At start-up \f2snmpd\fP reads the file \f2/etc/snmp.remote.conf\f1 to
determine the existence of subagents, the parts of the MIB that they
support, and the \f2udp\f port to use to communicate with them.
The format
of the file is
.Ex
mib-tree-identifier	IP-address	port	timeout	subagent-name
.Ee
.P
The \f2subagent-name\f1 is optional.
All other parts of the entry are
required.
The fields are separated by white-space (tab or space).
.P
An example of an entry is
.Ex
1.3.6.1.4.1.59.3	192.26.75.178	3333	3	sgi-experimental
.Ee
.P
This entry says that the subagent supporting the mib tree rooted at
1.3.6.1.4.1.59.3 is located at IP address 192.26.75.178.
It uses \f2udp\fP port
3333.
\f2snmpd\fP-forwarded requests to the subagent should time out
after 3 seconds.
The name of the agent is the sgi-experimental agent.
.P
Because \f2snmpd\fP reads and processes lines in the file in order,
multiple subagents can be configured that operate on nested parts of
the mib.
For all agents to be seen, the more deeply nested agents should
come first in the file.
For example
.Ex
1.3.6.1.4.1.59.3.26	192.26.75.1178	6666	4	sgi-exp-tv
1.3.6.1.4.1.59.3	192.26.75.178	3333	3	sgi-experimental
.Ee
.P
If the above two lines were reversed, \f2snmpd\fP would never
forward requests to the sgi-exp-tv agent.
.P
.SS Traps
.P
\f2snmpd\f1 issues some standard SNMP traps.
At start-up it reads the
\f2/etc/snmpd.trap.conf\f1 file to determine which traps to send to
which destinations and what community string to use when sending traps.
There are two types of entries in the file, one for traps and
destinations and one for the community string.
The format of the trap lines is
.Ex
trap		destination-list
.Ee
.P
The trap can be either a number or a string from RFC 1157 naming the
trap.
The destination list is a white space and/or comma-separated set
of IP addresses and/or hostnames.
For example
.Ex
1	192.26.75.178, bubba
authenticationFailure	192.26.75.109
.Ee
.P
The community string entry has the format:
.Ex
community	name
.Ee
.P
The string in the name field is used for all traps.
.P
To determine whether it has cold started or warm 
started, \f2snmpd\fP
uses the file \f2/etc/snmpd.start\f1.
.P
.SS Options
.TP 16
\-d \f2debug\fP
Set debugging modes of \f2snmpd\fP.
Possible values for \f2debug\fP are
\f2dump\fP, which will hex dump incoming and outgoing packets; \f2input\fP,
which will display decoded incoming packets; \f2output\fP, which will display
decoded outgoing packets; and \f2foreground\fP, which makes the daemon run
in the foreground and log messages to the standard output.
The \f2dump\fP,
\f2input\fP, and \f2output\fP flags all imply the \f2foreground\fP flag.
.TP 16
\-l \f2loglevel\fP
Control the level of messages produced by \f2snmpd\fP.
The levels are those
used by \f2syslog\fP(3B).
The value of \f2loglevel\fP is the text string for
that level.
The default \f2loglevel\fP is \f2error\fP.
To see warnings,
the \f2loglevel\fP would be \f2warning\fP.
The acceptable values for
\f2loglevel\fP can be found in \f2/usr/include/sys/syslog.h\fP.
.TP 16
\-u \f2namelist\fP
Specify a system namelist.
The default is \f2/unix\fP.
.SH CAVEATS
Currently \f2snmpd\fP suports the following traps only:
.Ex
coldStart warmStart authenticationFailure
.Ee
.SH FILES
.DT
/usr/etc/snmpd
.br
/etc/snmpd.auth
.br
/etc/snmpd.data
.br
/etc/snmpd.trap.conf
.br
/etc/snmpd.remote.conf
.br
/etc/snmpd.start
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
RFC 1157, RFC 1213
