.\" %Z%%M% %I% %E% ; TSIG - TSIX(RE) 1.1
.TH t6ext_attr 3N "12 Nov 1995" "TSIX(RE) 1.1"
.SH NAME
t6ext_attr, t6new_attr \- Activate extended security attributes
or set policy on security attribute change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cc [ flags ... ] file ... 
.I -lt6
.PP
.B #include <sys/t6attrs.h>
.PP
.B int t6ext_attr(int fd, t6cmd_t cmd);
.PP
.B int t6new_attr(int fd, t6cmd_t cmd);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I t6ext_attr()
turns on extended security operations on the 
trusted 
IPC  
mechanism.  
.I fd 
is the descriptor associated with the 
IPC 
mechanism, and 
.I cmd 
must be 
ON 
to turn on extended operations, or 
OFF 
to turn them off.  When first created, the trusted 
IPC  
mechanism appears the same as an untrusted 
IPC  
mechanism.  It can be used in the same way to send and receive data 
as long as communications do not violate the security policies of 
the system.
Between systems that support mandatory access control, for
example, communications can only occur between processes at the same 
sensitivity level.
Before the network endpoint allows a process to specify security 
attributes or manipulate the endpoint's security options, it must call 
.I t6ext_attr()\c
\&.  Any attempt to use extended operations 
other than 
.I t6ext_err()
before calling this routine fails, and 
.I errno 
is set to 
EINVAL\c
.PP
.I t6new_attr() 
with a value of 
ON 
for 
.B cmd 
tells
the underlying 
TSIX 
software that the receiving process is only interested
in security attributes if they differ from the last set of attributes it 
received.  After this call, 
.IR t6recvfrom(3N) 
only returns valid security 
attributes when a change in the attributes is detected.  This is indicated 
by setting the 
.I t6recvfrom 
parameter 
.I new_attrs 
to non-zero.
When new attributes are returned, the full set of requested 
attributes is returned, not just those that have changed.
When 
.I cmd 
is 
OFF\c
, the default situation prevails,
that is, attributes are returned with each call to 
.I t6recvfrom().
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP 15
[EINVAL] 
For 
.I t6new_attr()
, the caller did not initialize the endpoint's 
security extensions prior to this call 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
libt6(3N)
.SH SOURCE
Trusted Systems Interoperability Group
.SH NOTES
