'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_close @(#)t_close	41.5 of 5/26/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_close 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_close 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_close 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_close "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_close "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_close\f1 \- close a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.br
\f4#else\f1
.br
\f4#include <tiuser.h>\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.PP
\f4int t_close(fd)\f1
.br
\f4int fd;\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4t_close\fP function informs the transport provider that the user
is finished with the transport endpoint specified by \f4fd\f1,
and frees any local library resources associated with the endpoint.
In addition, \f4t_close\fP
closes the file associated with the transport endpoint.
.PP
\f4t_close\fP should be called from the \f4T_UNBND\fP state [see
\f4t_getstate\fP(3N)].
However, this function does not check state information,
so it may be called from any state to close a transport endpoint.
If this occurs, the local library resources associated with the endpoint
will be freed automatically.
In addition,
\f4close\fP(2)
will be issued for that file descriptor; the close will be
abortive if no other process has that file open, and will break any
transport connection that may be associated with that endpoint.
.P
This function resides within both the X/Open compliant \f4libxnet\f1 and 
the SVR4 compliant \f4libnsl\f1 Network Services libraries.  Network Services
applications which require X/Open compliance must link-load with \f4-lxnet\f1.
Network Services applications which require SVR4 compliance must link-load 
with \f4-lnsl\f1.
.P
On failure, \f4t_errno\f1 may be set to the following:
.TP 13
\f4[TBADF]\fP
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4t_getstate\fP(3N),
\f4t_open\fP(3N),
\f4t_unbind\fP(3N)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4t_close\fP
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f4t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
