'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_getprotaddr @(#)t_getprotaddr	1.1 of 11/1/96
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_getprotaddr 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_getprotaddr 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_getprotaddr 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_getprotaddr "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_getprotaddr "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_getprotaddr\f1 \- get protocol-specific service information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.PP
\f4int t_getprotaddr(int fd,\f1
.br
                     \f4struct t_bind *boundaddr, struct t_bind *perraddr)\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f4t_getprotaddr()\f1 function returns local and remote protocol addresses
currently associated with the transport endpoint specified by \f4fd\f1.
In \f4boundaddr\f1 and \f4peeraddr\f1 the user specified \f4maxlen\f1, which
is the maximum size of the address buffer, and \f4buf\f1 which points to the
buffer where the address is to be placed.  On return, the \f4buf\f1 field of 
\f4boundaddr\f1 points to the address, if any, currently bound to \f4fd\f1,
and the \f4len\f1 field specifies the length of the address.  If the
transport endpoint is in the T_UNBND state, zero is returned in the \f4len\f1
field of \f4boundaddr\f1.  The \f4buf\f1 field of \f4peeraddr\f1 points to the
address, if any, currently connected to \f4fd\f1, and the \f4len\f1 field
specifies the length of the address.  If the transport endpoint is not in the
T_DATAXFER state, zero is returned in the \f4len\f1 field of \f4peeraddr\f1.
.PP
This function resides within the X/Open compliant \f4libxnet\f1 Network
Services library.  Network Services applications which require X/Open
compliance must link-load with \f4-lxnet\f1.
.PP
On failure, \f4t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 15
\f4TBADF\fP
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport
endpoint.
.TP
\f4TBUFOVFLW\fP
The number of bytes allocated for an incoming argument (\f4maxlen\f1)
is greater than zero but not sufficient to store the value of that argument.
.TP
\f4TSYSERR\fP
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
\f4TPROTO\fP
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between
XTI and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable
XTI (\f4t_errno\f1).
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4t_bind\fP(3N)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4t_getprotaddr\fP
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f4t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
