'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_listen @(#)t_listen	40.10 of 5/23/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_listen 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_listen 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_listen 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_listen "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_listen "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_listen\f1 \- listen for a connect request
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.br
\f4#else\f1
.br
\f4#include <tiuser.h>\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.PP
\f4int t_listen(fd, call)\f1
.br
\f4int fd;\f1
.br
\f4struct t_call \(**call;\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function listens for a
connect request from a calling transport user.
\f4fd\fP
identifies the local transport endpoint where connect
indications arrive,
and on return,
\f4call\fP
contains information describing the connect indication.
\f4call\f1
points to a \f4t_call\f1 structure, which contains the following members:
.PP
.RS
\f4struct netbuf addr;\fP
.br
\f4truct netbuf opt;\fP
.br
\f4struct netbuf udata;\fP
.br
\f4int sequence;\fP
.RE
.PP
\f4netbuf\f1 is described in \f4intro\fP(3N).
In
\f4call\fP,
\f4addr\fP
returns the protocol address of the calling transport user,
\f4opt\fP
returns protocol-specific parameters
associated with the connect request,
\f4udata\fP
returns any user data sent by the caller on the connect request, and
\f4sequence\fP
is a number that uniquely identifies the returned connect
indication.
The value of
\f4sequence\fP
enables the user to listen for multiple connect indications
before responding to any of them.
.PP
Since this function returns values for the
\f4addr\fP,
\f4opt\fP,
and
\f4udata\fP
fields of
\f4call\fP,
the
\f4maxlen\fP
[see \f4netbuf\f1 in \f4intro\fP(3N)] field of each must be set before
issuing \f4t_listen\fP
to indicate the maximum size of the buffer for each.
.PP
By default,
\f4t_listen\fP
executes in synchronous mode and
waits for a connect indication to arrive before returning to the user.
However, if
\f4O_NDELAY\fP
or
\f4O_NONBLOCK\fP
is set (via
\f4t_open\fP
or
\f4fcntl\fP),
\f4t_listen\fP
executes asynchronously, reducing
to a poll for existing connect indications.
If none are available, it returns \-1 and sets
\f4t_errno
to \f4TNODATA\fP.
.P
This function resides within both the X/Open compliant \f4libxnet\f1 and 
the SVR4 compliant \f4libnsl\f1 Network Services libraries.  Network Services
applications which require X/Open compliance must link-load with \f4-lxnet\f1.
Network Services applications which require SVR4 compliance must link-load 
with \f4-lnsl\f1.
.P
On failure, \f4t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20
\f4TBADF\fP
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\f4TBADQLEN\fP
If \f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined, then when the argument \f4qlen\f1 of the
endpoint referenced by \f4fd\f1 is zero, then this error will be returned
in \f4t_errno\f1.
.TP
\f4TBUFOVFLW\fP
The number of bytes allocated for an incoming argument is not
sufficient to store the value of that argument.  If, however, 
\f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined, then the previous statement is slightly
changed to be: the number of bytes allocated for an incoming argument
\f4is greater than zero and\f1 sufficient to store the value of that argument.
The provider's state, as seen by the user, changes to
\f4T_INCON\fP, and
the connect indication information to be returned in
\f4call\fP
is discarded.
.TP
\f4TNODATA\fP
\f4O_NDELAY\fP or \f4O_NONBLOCK\fP was set, but no connect indications
had been queued.
.TP
\f4TLOOK\fP
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.TP
\f4TNOTSUPPORT\fP
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\f4TOUTSTATE\fP
If \f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined, then when this function is issued in the
wrong sequence on the transport endpoint referenced by \f4fd\f1 the
\f4TOUTSTATE\f1 value is returned within \f4t_errno\f1.
.TP
\f4TSYSERR\fP
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.TP
\f4TQFULL\fP
If \f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined, then when the maximum number of outstanding
indications has been reached for the transport endpoint referenced by 
\f4fd\f1, the \f4TQFULL\f1 value is returned within \f4t_errno\f1.

.SH NOTES
If a user issues \f4t_listen\fP
in synchronous mode on a transport endpoint that was not
bound for listening (that is, \f4qlen\f1 was zero on
\f4t_bind\fP), the call will wait forever because
no connect indications will arrive on that endpoint.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4intro\fP(3N), \f4fcntl\fP(2), \f4t_accept\fP(3N),
\f4t_alloc\fP(3N),
\f4t_bind\fP(3N),
\f4t_connect\fP(3N),
\f4t_open\fP(3N),
\f4t_optmgmt\fP(3N)
\f4t_rcvconnect\fP(3N)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4t_listen\fP returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f4t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
