'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_look @(#)t_look	40.9 of 5/23/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_look 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_look 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_look 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_look "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_look "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_look\f1 \- look at the current event on a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.br
\f4#else\f1
.br
\f4#include <tiuser.h>\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.PP
\f4int t_look(fd)\f1
.br
\f4int fd;\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns the current event
on the transport endpoint specified by
\f4fd\fP.
This function enables a transport provider to notify a transport user of an
asynchronous event when the user is issuing functions in synchronous mode.
Certain events require immediate notification of the user and are indicated
by a specific error, \f4TLOOK\fP, on the current or next function to
be executed.
.P
This function also enables a transport user to poll a transport endpoint
periodically for asynchronous events.
.P
On failure, \f4t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 15
\f4TBADF\fP
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\f4TSYSERR\fP
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.TP
\f4TPROTO\fP
If \f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined, then this error indicates that a 
communication problem has been detected between XTI and the transport
provider for which there is no other suitable XTI (\f4t_errno\f1).
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4t_open\fP(3N),
\f4t_snd\fP(3N),
\f4t_sndudata\fP(3N)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon success, \f4t_look\fP returns a value that indicates which of the
allowable events has occurred, or returns zero if no event exists.
One of the following events is returned:
.TP 19
\f4T_LISTEN\fP
connection indication received
.TP
\f4T_CONNECT\fP
connect confirmation received
.TP
\f4T_DATA\fP
normal data received		
.TP
\f4T_EXDATA\fP
expedited data received	
.TP
\f4T_DISCONNECT\fP
disconnect received
.TP
\f4T_UDERR\fP
datagram error indication	
.TP
\f4T_ORDREL\fP
orderly release indication
.PP
On failure, \-1 is returned and \f4t_errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
