'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_rcvrel @(#)t_rcvrel	40.9 of 5/23/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_rcvrel 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_rcvrel 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_rcvrel 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_rcvrel "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_rcvrel "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_rcvrel\f1 \- acknowledge receipt of an orderly release indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.br
\f4#else\f1
.br
\f4#include <tiuser.h>\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.PP
\f4t_rcvrel (int fd);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to acknowledge receipt of
an orderly release indication.
\f4fd\fP
identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection exists.
After receipt of this indication, the user should not attempt to
receive more data because such an attempt will block forever.
However, the user may continue to send data over the connection if
\f4t_sndrel\fP
has not been issued by the user.
.PP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider,
and is only supported if the transport provider returned service
type
\f4T_COTS_ORD\fP
on
\f4t_open\fP
or
\f4t_getinfo\fP.
.P
This function resides within both the X/Open compliant \f4libxnet\f1 and 
the SVR4 compliant \f4libnsl\f1 Network Services libraries.  Network Services
applications which require X/Open compliance must link-load with \f4-lxnet\f1.
Network Services applications which require SVR4 compliance must link-load 
with \f4-lnsl\f1.
.P
On failure, \f4t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20
\f4TBADF\fP
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\f4TNOREL\fP
No orderly release indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP
\f4TLOOK\fP
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.TP
\f4TNOTSUPPORT\fP
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\f4TOUTSTATE\fP
If \f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined and \f4t_rcvrel\f1() is issued
in the wrong sequence on the transport endpoint referenced by \f4fd\f1,
the \f4TOUTSTATE\fP error value is returned within the variable \f4t_errno\f1.
.TP
\f4TSYSERR\fP
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4t_open\fP(3N), \f4t_sndrel\fP(3N)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4t_rcvrel\fP
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure
\f4t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
