'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_sndrel @(#)t_sndrel	40.9 of 5/23/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_sndrel 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_sndrel 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_sndrel 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_sndrel "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_sndrel "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_sndrel\f1 \- initiate an orderly release
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.br
\f4#else\f1
.br
\f4#include <tiuser.h>\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.PP
\f4int t_sndrel (int fd);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to initiate an orderly release of a transport connection
and indicates to the transport provider that
the transport user has no more data to send.
\f4fd\fP identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection exists.
After issuing
\f4t_sndrel\fP,
the user may not send any more data over the connection.
However, a user may continue to receive data if an
orderly release indication has not been received.
.PP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider,
and is only supported if the transport provider returned service
type \f4T_COTS_ORD\fP on \f4t_open\fP or \f4t_getinfo\fP.
.P
If \f4t_sndrel\fP is issued from an invalid state, the provider
will generate an \f4EPROTO\fP protocol error; however, this
error may not occur until a subsequent reference to the transport
endpoint.
.P
This function resides within both the X/Open compliant \f4libxnet\f1 and 
the SVR4 compliant \f4libnsl\f1 Network Services libraries.  Network Services
applications which require X/Open compliance must link-load with \f4-lxnet\f1.
Network Services applications which require SVR4 compliance must link-load 
with \f4-lnsl\f1.
.P
On failure, \f4t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20
\f4TBADF\fP
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\f4TFLOW\fP
\f4O_NDELAY\fP or \f4O_NONBLOCK\fP was set, but the flow control
mechanism prevented the transport provider from accepting the
function at this time.
.TP
\f4TLOOK\fP
If \f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined and an asynchronous event has occured
on this transport endpoint which requires immediate attention, then this
\f4t_errno\f1 is passed back.
.TP
\f4TNOTSUPPORT\fP
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\f4TOUTSTATE\fP
If \f4_XOPEN_SOURCE\f1 is defined and \f4t_sndrel\f1() is issued
in the wrong sequence on the transport endpoint referenced by \f4fd\f1,
the \f4TOUTSTATE\fP error value is returned within the variable \f4t_errno\f1.
.TP
\f4TSYSERR\fP
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4t_getinfo\fP(3N),
\f4t_open\fP(3N),
\f4t_rcvrel\fP(3N)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4t_sndrel\fP returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f4t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
