'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_strerror @(#)t_strerror	1.1 of 11/01/96
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_strerror 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_strerror 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_strerror 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_strerror "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_strerror "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_strerror\f1 \- produce an error message string
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.PP
\f4char *t_strerror(int errnum)\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4t_strerror\fP
maps the error number in \f4errnum\fP that corresponds to an XTI error to a
language-dependent error message string and returns a pointer to the string.
The string pointed to will not be modified by the program, but may be 
overwritten by a subsequent call to the \f4t_strerror\fP function.  The
string is not terminated by a newline character.  The language for error
message strings written by \f4t_strerror\f1 is implementation-defined.  If it
is English, the error message string describing the value in \f4t_errno\f1
is identical to the comments following the \f4t_errno\f1 codes defined 
in \f4<xti.h>\f1.  If an error code is unknown, \f4t_strerror()\fP returns 
the string:
.sp
.in +0.5i
\f4<error>: error unknown\fP
.in -0.5i
.sp
where \f2<error>\f1 is the error number supplied as input and is represented 
as \f4%d\f1 within the message text.  The implementation uses the format of
\f4%2d\f1 to produce a maximum of two ASCII decimal digits within the message
text returned.  So, an error number greater than decimal \f299\f1 will
produce a decimal value of \f299\f1.
.SH EXAMPLE
For a \f4t_errno\f1 equal to \f45\f1, the following corresponding
message pointer is returned:
.PP
.RS
\f4char *msgptr;
.br
\f4msgptr = t_strerror((int)5);\f1
.RE
.PP
The returned diagnostic message pointer would point to the text:
.PP
.RS
\f4couldn't allocate address\f1
.RE
.PP
This function resides within the X/Open compliant \f4libxnet\f1 Network
Services library.  Network Services applications which require X/Open
compliance must link-load with \f4-lxnet\f1.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4t_strerror()\fP returns a pointer to the generated message string.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f4/usr/lib/locale/\f2locale\f4/LC_MESSAGES/uxlibxnet\f1
language-specific message file [See \f4LANG\fP on \f4environ\f1(5).]
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4t_error\fP(3N)
.Ee
