'\"macro stdmacro
.if n .pH g3n.t_unbind @(#)t_unbind	40.8 of 5/23/91
.\" Copyright 1991 UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989, 1990 AT&T
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} t_unbind 3N "Networking Support Utilities" "\&"
.if \nX=1 .ds x} t_unbind 3N "Networking Support Utilities"
.if \nX=2 .ds x} t_unbind 3N "" "\&"
.if \nX=3 .ds x} t_unbind "" "" "\&"
.if \nX=4 .ds x} t_unbind "NS_LIB" "EXTENSION" " "
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
\f4t_unbind\f1 \- disable a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4#ifdef _XOPEN_SOURCE\f1
.br
\f4#include <xti.h>\f1
.br
\f4#else\f1
.br
\f4#include <tiuser.h>\f1
.br
\f4#endif\f1
.PP
\f4int t_unbind (int fd);\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4t_unbind\fP function disables the transport endpoint specified by
\f4fd\fP which was previously bound by \f4t_bind\fP(3N).
On completion of this call, no further data or events destined for
this transport endpoint will be accepted by the transport provider.
.P
This function resides within both the X/Open compliant \f4libxnet\f1 and 
the SVR4 compliant \f4libnsl\f1 Network Services libraries.  Network Services
applications which require X/Open compliance must link-load with \f4-lxnet\f1.
Network Services applications which require SVR4 compliance must link-load 
with \f4-lnsl\f1.
.P
On failure, \f4t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 15
\f4TBADF\fP
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\f4TOUTSTATE\fP
The function was issued in the wrong sequence.
.TP
\f4TLOOK\fP
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint.
.TP
\f4TSYSERR\fP
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
\f4t_bind\fP(3N)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f4t_unbind\fP returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f4t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
